Petitioner seeks a direction to the respondent-BSES-RPL to install the new electricity connection for them to lift and stilt parking area of the property, and the same issue was held in the judgement passed by a Single bench judge HON’BLE MR. JUSTICE SANJEEV SACHDEVA, in the matter REENU MALHOTRA V. STATE OF DELHI NCT AND ORS dealt with an issue mentioned above. In this case, the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the electricity meter has been sanctioned, however, the same has not been installed for servicing the lift and the common areas, But according to the Learned counsel appearing for BSES-RPL under instructions, submitted that he has no objection to the installation of the electricity meter, however, the objection was being raised by other co-owners of the property. Meanwhile Learned counsels appearing for respondents no. 4 and 5 submitted that there are civil disputes pending inter-se the parties and the petitioner is seeking to have rights established in the property by way of installation of an electricity meter, and also there is no threat of disconnection of the said supply. Learned counsel appearing for the petitioner submitted that the electricity is being provided from a meter installed at the second floor, which owns respondent no. 6, who does not even reside therein. Later because today there is no dispute that the lift and common areas are being serviced by an electricity connection, though W.P.(C) 2356/2021 3 in the name of respondent no. 6, the grievance of the petitioner is premature, It was mentioned that the BSES-RPL would install the electricity connection for the lift and common areas. The court perused the facts and argument’s presented, it thought that- “It was further clarified that grant of the electricity connection, if any, to the petitioner would not amount to accepting or acknowledging the right of the petitioner to the subject property and the same would be without prejudice to the rights and contentions of the parties and would have no bearing on the civil suits pending between the parties. The petition is accordingly disposed of in the above terms”.