The present writ petition has been filed challenging the action of the Respondents of not granting sufficient time to him for appearing in the review medical examination conducted by the Respondents, and the same issue was held in the judgement passed by a Division bench judge HON’BLE MR. JUSTICE MANMOHAN &amp; HON’BLE MR. JUSTICE NAVIN CHAWLA, in the matter  KRISHAN YADAV  V. UNION OF INDIA AND ANR dealt with an issue mentioned above. In this case, the petitioner seeks directions to the Respondents to grant ten days to the petitioner for reduction of his weight and subsequently conduct his re-examination and also consider his candidature for appointment to the post of Sub Inspector (GD) in CAPF along with all consequential benefits. Learned counsel for the Petitioner states that the respondents issued an Advertisement for appointment to the post of Sub Inspector in W.P. (C) 12553/2021 Delhi Police, CAPFs and assistant sub-inspector in the CISF examination 2019 and the petitioner upon fulfilling all the eligibility criteria, applied for the post of sub-inspector (GD) in CAPF. He states that after being successful in the written examination and PST /PET, the petitioner was issued an admit card to appear for medical examination on 20th October 2021, on which date he was declared unfit on grounds of being overweight as the weight of the petitioner was 80 Kg. Later Petitioner applied for review medical examination and requested the medical authorities to grant him at least ten days to reduce his weight, meanwhile, the petitioner was referred for specialist opinion and the review medical board vide order dated 26th October 2021, again declared him medically unfit on having determined his weight is 79 Kg. It should be settled law that this Court in writ jurisdiction only examines the decision-making process to ensure that the petitioner is treated fairly and reasonably by the respondent which was stated by the learned counsel of the petitioner, Admittedly, the Petitioner was over-weight on both days i.e. the date when Initial Medical Board was held as well as on the date when Review W.P. (C) 12553/2021 Medical Board was held. There is also no allegation of wrongdoing against the respondents. The court perused the facts and argument’s presented, it thought that- “Keeping in view the aforesaid, this Court finds no ground to interfere in the present proceedings. Accordingly, the present writ petition along with the pending application is dismissed’.