“In cases where the agent is personally liable, a person dealing with him may hold either him or his principal or both of them liable” The material averments made in the plaint are that the plaintiff is a publisher of the well-known English Daily, The Hindu and other publications like Frontline, Business Line, Sportstar etc. During course of its business, the plaintiff has to obtain advertisements for its publication. The defendant has been granted advertisement rights in connection with advertisement of VII South Asian Federation Games, 1995 by the Government of Tamil Nadu in its Letter No.5187-A/Advt/96-1 dated 20-02-1996.In pursuance of the said order, the defendant has issued release orders to the plaintiff on various dates for publication of certain advertisements and accordingly, the plaintiff has published the same. As per the agreement between the plaintiff and defendant, the defendant has been given a credit period of sixty days from the date of publication to pay the publication charges. If the defendant fails to pay charges within sixty days, he is liable to pay interest at 24%.The defendant contrary to the agreement has neglected to pay publication charges to the plaintiff. The amount of Rs.46,31,237.75p(Rupees Forty Six lakhs thirty one thousand two hundred thirty seven and seventy five paise only)is due from the defendant.The plaintiff has repeatedly issued reminders to the defendant, but no fruitful action has come out and ultimately, issued a legal notice and even after receipt of the same, the defendant has failed to settle the amount. Under the said circumstances, the present suit has been instituted for the relief sought therein. ISSUE BEFORE THE COURT:Whether the defendant is liable for not fulfilling the criteria of the agreement? RATIO OF THE COURT:Section 230 of Indian contract act is agent cannot personally enforce, nor be bound by, contracts on behalf of principal. – In the absence of any contract to that effect, an agent cannot personally enforce contracts entered into by him on behalf of his principal, nor is he personally bound by them. A mere perusal of the said section would go to show that if any contract is made by an agent on behalf of his principal, the agent cannot be made liable.To controvert the contentions put forth on the side of the appellant/defendant, the learned counsel appearing for the respondent/plaintiff has befittingly contended that the plaintiff has made advertisements only on the basis of release orders given by the defendant and therefore, the defendant is personally liable to pay the amount mentioned in the judgment and decree passed by the learned Single Judge. Under the said circumstances, the argument put forth on the side of the appellant/defendant is liable to be rejected.Section 233 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872 is Right of person dealing with agent personally liable In cases where the agent is personally liable, a person dealing with him may hold either him or his principal or both of them liable. A plain reading of the said section would clearly indicate that if contract is made where an agent is personally liable, the agent or principal or both liable to pay the amount, in question.The court observed the relationship between principal and agent in the context of section 182,230,233 of the Indian contract act ,1872 and held that the entire plaint proceeds on the basis of Exs-P3 and P4 series. Exs-P3 and P4 series are nothing but release orders and the same have been issued by the defendant to the plaintiff. Only on that basis, the advertisements, in question, have been published by the plaintiff. Ex-P5 series are nothing but reminder issued by the plaintiff to the defendant. Ex-P6 series are the letters from the defendant where the defendant has acknowledged the amount due from the plaintiff.The court also stated that it is easily discernible that a contract has been created in between the plaintiff and defendant with regard to publication of advertisements. Since the defendant itself has issued release orders to the plaintiff, the defendant is legally liable to pay the amount mentioned in the judgment and decree. The main contention put forth on the side of the appellant/defendant is that since the State Government has not been impleaded as one of the defendants in the present suit, the same is bad for non-joinder of necessary parties.Considering Exs-P3 and P4 series, this Court is of the definite view that impleadment of the State Government is totally unwarranted and further Section 230 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872 is not at all applicable to the facts and circumstances of this case.DECISION HELD BY COURT:At last the court stated that it is clear that the argument put forth on the side of the appellant/defendant is sans merit, whereas the argument put forth on the side of the respondent/ plaintiff is really having acceptable force.The learned Single Judge after considering the overall evidence available on record has rightly decreed the suit to the extent mentioned supra and this Court has not found any infirmity or illegality in the judgment and decree passed by the learned Single Judge and altogether, the present Original Side Appeal deserves to be dismissed. This Original Side Appeal is dismissed with costs.