“The High Court ought to have put some conditions for giving security for withdrawal, so that there may not be any difficulty for realising back the amount, in the event the first appeal of the appellant is allowed by the High Court.”, this remarkable stand was forwarded by Hon’ble Supreme Court, in a three judge bench chaired by Hon’ble Justice Mr Ashok Bhushan, Mr. R.Subhash Reddy &amp; Mr. M.R.Shah in the Civil appeal case of Nayara Energy Limited V. The State of Gujarat &amp; ors., [C.A. No.  4102­-4103 of 2020]. Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied with the impugned order dated 18.08.2020 passed by the High Court of Gujarat in Civil Application (For Stay) No. 1 of 2020 in First Appeal No. 1543 of 2020 and the subsequent order dated 30.09.2020 passed in Misc. Civil Application (for modification of order) No. 2 of 2020 in 1st appeal no. 1543 of 2020, permitting the original claimants to withdraw 50% of the 80% of the amount, as awarded by the learned Reference Court, without furnishing any security, the appellant herein – the appellant/applicant before the High Court has preferred the present appeals. Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied with the judgment and award passed by the learned Reference Court enhancing the amount of compensation for the land acquired, the appellant herein has preferred the first appeal before the High Court being First Appeal No. 1543 of 2020. In the said appeal, the appellant filed Civil Application (for Stay) no. 1 of 2020 praying to stay the judgment and order passed by the learned Reference Court. By the impugned order dated 18.08.2020, the High Court has stayed the execution, implementation and operation of the judgment and award passed by the learned Reference Court, on condition that the appellant shall deposit 80% of the awarded amount along with proportionate cost. That thereafter the appellant herein filed an application to modify the aforesaid order pointing out that in case of relied upon judgment, relied upon by the learned Reference Court, an appal has been preferred and there is an unconditional stay granted by the High Court – Coordinate Bench, and therefore, it was prayed to modify the aforesaid interim order. By order dated 30.09.2020, the learned Single Judge of the High Court has dismissed the said application. Hence, the present appeals have been preferred by the original applicant – acquiring body. After examining all the submissions, arguments and evidences forwarded by the councils, the Hon’ble SC observed that, “if the original claimants are permitted to withdraw 25% of the enhanced amount of compensation, as awarded by the learned Reference Court, together with proportionate interest and cost, without furnishing any security and the balance 75% of the enhanced amount of compensation, together with proportionate cost and interest, as awarded by the learned Reference Court is permitted to be invested in a fixed deposit in any nationalized bank with cumulative interest, it will meet the end of justice and take care of the interest of both the parties.”