“A negative import that only such acts as are mentioned in the Act are permissible to be done and acts or things not mentioned therein are not permissible to be done” The factual matrix of this case is the Respondent being the lowest bidder was allotted a contract by the Appellant in respect of work styled as “Construction of Tsunami Reconstruction Project in A &amp; N Islands. SH: Construction of 821 units of permanent shelters (single stories) including internal water supply sanitary installation &amp; internal Electrification in the Island of Teressa.“The contract agreement was entered into between the parties on 5th October, 2006. According to the Appellant, the Respondent failed to adhere to the time frame for completion of the contract.As a result, a show cause notice was issued to the Respondent on 27th April, 2007 to show cause as to why the contract should not be rescinded by invoking clause 3 of the agreement. The Respondent submitted its response thereto on 8th May, 2007.Despite the dismal performance of the Respondent, the Appellant gave it one more opportunity to improve on the performance vide a letter dated 20th June, 2007. ISSUE BEFORE THE COURT:Whether an intra-Court Letters Patent Appeal under clause 15 of the Letters Patent of High Court at Calcutta can be maintained against an order passed by the Single Judge on an application for condonation of delay filed along with the petition (for setting aside an Arbitration Award) under Section 34 of the arbitration an concillation act hereinafter referred to as ‘the Act’)?Whether the prayer for condonation of delay can be accepted?Whether the application deserves to be rejected, is a matter well within the jurisdiction of that court? RATIO OF THE COURT:The Appellant held some points that he had filed a petition for setting aside the arbitral award before the District Court at Port Blair being Appeal No. 2 of 2015. The Respondent, on the other hand, filed an execution proceeding in relation to the self same Award before the High Court at Calcutta being EC Case No.734 of 2015.The Appellant then preferred an application in Appeal No.2 of 2015 before the District Court, for stay of the Award. The District Judge allowed the said application. That fact was brought to the notice of the High Court at Calcutta in execution proceedings initiated by the Respondent. The High Court vide order dated 15th September, 2015, disposed of the Execution petition filed by the Respondent and gave liberty to the Respondent to appear before the District Court and to resist the proceedings pending in that court.The Appellant contends that the Division Bench committed manifest error in entertaining the appeal disregarding the settled legal position restated by this Court in Fuerst Day Lawson Limited (supra). It is submitted that the Act is a self contained code. It provides for a remedy against the arbitral award, including for condonation of delay in filing of the petition under Section 34 of the Act. The order passed by the learned Single Judge on the subject application for condonation of delay in filing petition under Section 34 was, therefore, in relation to the arbitration proceedings.Even if the discretion or for that matter jurisdiction is misapplied and is not in accordance with law, that can be no reason to hold that the order in such proceedings was not under the provisions of the Act as such. It would nevertheless come within the ambit of the Act. Further, such order has not been made appealable under Section 37 of the Act as applicable at the relevant time. The correctness whereof could be assailed before the appropriate forum, but not by way of a Letters Patent Appeal under clause 15. The Appellant has stoutly relied on the dictum of this Court in the case of Fuerst Day Lawson Limited (supra) to buttress this contention.The Respondent, on the other hand, has supported the view taken by the Division Bench in the impugned judgment being in conformity with the dictum of the special bench of the High Court of three-Judges in the case of M/s. Tanusree Art Printers &amp;Anr.(supra). It is submitted that as the order passed by the learned Single Judge is not in terms of the provisions of the Act and thus without jurisdiction, the exercise of powers under clause 15 of the letters patent appeal was just and proper. It was submitted that Section 34 of the Act gives no jurisdiction to the court to condone delay in filing of the petition for setting aside the award, beyond the period prescribed in sub-Section (3) thereof.After expiry of the prescribed period, it is submitted that even though it may be a case of gross hardship caused to the Appellant because of the ill advised remedy pursued before the District Court and virtually being rendered remediless, that is the inevitable consequence of the mandate of Section 34 of the Act. Further, the explanation offered by the Appellant in the application for condonation of delay cannot be reckoned as a sufficient cause in law. Thus, the learned Single Judge committed manifest error in entertaining the same to show indulgence to the Appellant by condoning the delay of 131 days in filing of the petition under Section 34 of the Act.This court held after hearing all the submissions that the efficacy of the provisions of the Act has been expounded by this Court in the case of Fuerst Day Lawson Limited (supra). After analyzing the relevant provisions and the decisions on the subject and in particular the decision in P.S. Sathappan v. Andhra Bank Ltd.[4], it has been held that the Act is a self contained Code relating to arbitration. In paragraphs 88 and 89 of the reported judgment, this Court opined:It is, thus, to be seen that Arbitration Act, 1940, from its inception and right through to 2004 (in P.S. Sathappan) was held to be a self- contained code. Now, if the Arbitration Act, 1940 was held to be a self- contained code, on matters pertaining to arbitration, the arbitration act which consolidates, amends and designs the law relating to arbitration bring it, as much as possible, in harmony with the UNCITRAL Model must be held only to be more so.Once it is held that the Arbitration Act is a self-contained code and exhaustive, then it must also be held, using the lucid expression of Tulzapurkar, J., that it carries with it “a negative import that only such acts as are mentioned in the Act are permissible to be done and acts or things not mentioned therein are not permissible to be done”. In other words, a letters patent appeal would be excluded by the application of one of the general principles that where the special Act sets out a self-contained code the applicability of the general law procedure would be impliedly excluded.”The court stated that after this decision, there is no scope to contend that the remedy of Letters Patent Appeal was available in relation to judgment of the learned Single Judge in question. This legal position has been restated in the recent decision of this Court (to which one of us was party, Justice Dipak Misra), in the case of Arun Dev Upadhyaya V/s. Integrated Sales Service Ltd &amp;Anr.[5]The Division Bench of the High Court, however, made a fine distinction by holding that the judgment of the learned Single Judge of condoning delay in filing of the petition under Section 34 of the Act was without jurisdiction and not in terms of the provisions of the Act. It is not possible to countenance this approach.The court observed that the issue is squarely answered against the Respondent by the decision of this Court in Fuerst Day Lawson Limited (supra). In that, the Judgment of the learned Single Judge dated 27th April, 2016, was passed on an application purported to be under Section 34(3) of the Act, for condoning delay in filing of the petition for setting aside the arbitral award. Hence, the remedy of Letters Patent Appeal against that decision is unavailable. DECISION HELD BY COURT:The court stated that the order dated 7th November, 2016 passed by this Court directing the Appellant to deposit Rs. 5,00,00,000/- (Rupees Five Crores) in the Registry of this Court and further to invest the same in a short term fixed deposit.The said amount along with interest accrued thereon be transferred to an escrow account linked to the proceedings pending before the High Court at Calcutta being A.P. No.224 of 2016.The High Court will be free to pass appropriate directions regarding disbursement or investment of the said amount. The appeals are allowed in the above terms with no order as to costs