Introduction:  The court in this case has denied construction on land which is intended for public use. This case held that the right of people to a healthy environment also comes under the purview of Article 21. It held that any construction is done with the need to contravene such right will be struck down.  Constitution and statutory provisions discussed: Article 14, 21, 47, 48-A, and 51-A (g) of the Constitution. Section 61, 64, 66, 203, 250 of the Haryana Municipal Act, 1973. Principle 1 of the Stockholm Declaration of 1972. Facts:  The Municipal Committee of District Kurukshetra in Haryana had framed Town Planning Scheme No.5 which was sanctioned by the Government of Haryana. The first appellant owned a small portion of land in the scheme. The appellant had surrendered 25% of her land to the Municipality as a requisite to allow her building to be constructed. The said land was vested in the Municipality by Section 61 of the Haryana Municipal Act, 1973. The same land, in the scheme, was a subject matter of the lease for 99 years which was made in favor of PSS (Punjab Samaj Sabha) and was marked for open spaces. The Government allotted the land to PSS upon payment on April 18th, 1991. It obtained sanction for construction of Dharmashala on December 18th, 1992. The construction began in July 1992 and on becoming aware of such construction the appellant filed a writ petition seeking for an ad-interim injunction. The High Court denied relief and dismissed the petition. Aggrieved by this, this matter is brought to the Supreme Court by way of Special Leave. Issues: Arguments: Arguments of the appellants: Arguments of the respondents: Judgement: The court held that the government did not have the proper authority to take such a decision. It stated that the sanction of land by the municipality for various uses is against the scheme and violative of law and constitution.  The court emphasized the need to preserve the environment with the help of Principle 1 of the Stockholm Declaration of 1972. It was held that the right to have a living atmosphere suitable for human existence comes within the scope of the right to life. The affirmative declaration in Principle 1 encourages the municipal states to tackle environmental problems in the broadest human context and not just as trivial problems to conserve nature for its own benefit. The court also mentioned 48-A and 51-A (g) to highlight the need to safeguard the environment and forests of the country. Article 47 imposes a duty on the state to improve public health. Taking into account the above provisions the court stated that the word ‘environment’ is of the broad spectrum which brings within its ambit “hygienic atmosphere and ecological balance”. The state is bound in its duty to forge policies to maintain ecological balance. Article 21 in its ambit would also include protection and preservation of the environment, sanitation, and ecological balance free from pollution. Any act which can cause any form of environmental pollution be it air or water would amount to a violation of Article 21. There is a constitutional imperative on the states and municipalities to take adequate measures to promote and preserve both man-made and natural environments. The court stated that Section 203 enjoins the Municipality to frame schemes providing for environmental and sanitary amenities and to preserve and protect parks, open lands, sanitation, roads, sewage, etc. to maintain ecological balance. The lands vested in section 61 (c) of the Act should be used for the above-mentioned purposes. The court disagreed with the appellant’s view that the land being unused for a span of more than 20 years would divest it from the municipality and vest it to them.  The court stated that Section 66 gives Municipality power to transfer lands vested into  the government but it is subject to provisions of Section 64 of the Act. Section 250 of the Act confers general power to the government to issue directions to any committee for carrying out purposes of the Act but it should only be used to further the goals stated in the given scheme. The land vested or reserved under the scheme cannot be directed to be used for any other public purposes unless there is grave compelling demand to issue such directions. Thus, the court held that the Government has no power to lease out land to PSS and hence, the grant of the lease in favor of PSS is without authority of law and jurisdiction. The court referred to the case of Bangalore Medical Trust v. B.S. Muddappa to explain whether landmarked for open spaces can be used for public purposes. In the above case, the court held that ‘the preservation of open spaces for parks and playgrounds are universally recognized as a legitimate exercise of statutory power rationally related to the protection of the residents of the locality from the ill-effects of urbanization.’ The ratio of this case was applied by the court and it stated that in the given case open lands vested in the municipality were meant for public amenities to the residents to maintain ecology, sanitation, recreational, play-ground, and ventilation purposes. The construction of a building would affect all these things and have ill effects on the residents. Hence, such an order passed by the government and the action of the municipality would go against the order of the scheme. The court differed from the respondents and stated that though two decades have passed, any land taken from the citizens for a public purpose is required to be used for the protection and preservation of hygienic conditions for the residents. The court further stated that PSS had proceeded with the construction despite having knowledge of a writ petition filed by the appellants being pending. Instead of awaiting the decision on merits, PSS continued with their construction and expended money on it. It can be said that it was a deliberate risk undertaken by the respondents and the court wouldn’t validate such actions. Under these circumstances the court refused to justify the actions of the government or municipality to allot land to PSS. The court held that such allotment was detrimental to people in the locality and in gross violation of the scheme. The court thus concluded that any construction made by PSS should be pulled down and it must be brought back to the condition in which it existed prior to allotment. It directed the municipality to pull down the construction within four weeks. Thus, the appeal was granted and the writ petition was ordered as prayed for.  Conclusion: The court through this judgement has upheld the need to preserve open-spaces, building, etc. for the use of public. It has ascertained that no construction can be done if it hinders with public use or poses as an environmental threat. It also emphasized on the need for preservation of environment and equated the right to a healthy environment to the status of fundamental right under Article 21. 