The initiation and the commencement of the Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process are two different things. The ‘initiation date’ is referred to as the filing of application by the eligible applicant, whereas the ‘commencement date’ refers to passing of order of admission of application by the Adjudicating Authority. This assertion was made by the Supreme Court of India presided over by J. Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and J. M. R. Shah in the case of Ramesh Kymal vs. M/s Siemens Gamesa Renewable Power Pvt Ltd. [Civil Appeal No. 4050 of 2020]. The appellant claimed that a sum of INR 104,11,76,479 was due and payable to him pursuant to his resignation “from all capacities held by him in the respondent in accordance with the various Employment Agreements/Incentive Agreements” entered into by him with the respondent during his tenure as Chairman and Managing Director. The appellant entered into an Employment Agreement with the respondent and signed another Employment Agreement coupled with an Incentive Agreement which superseded it. The new Employment Agreement was amended after which the appellant submitted his resignation to the respondent. The respondent acknowledged receipt of the letter of resignation and requested the appellant to continue in employment beyond the 60 days’ notice period. They communicated via mail, the respondent confirmed the payments which were due and payable to him under the letter of resignation. Finally, a termination letter was addressed to the appellant. The appellant issued a demand notice which specified that the date of default was 30th April and filed an application under Section 9 of the IBC for default in the payment of his operational dues on May 11th. During the pendency of the application, an Ordinance was promulgated by the President by which Section 10A was inserted into the IBC. The respondent filed an application seeking the dismissal of the appellant’s application on the basis of the newly inserted provisions of Section 10A. The NCLT upheld the submission of the respondent, holding that a bar had been created by the newly inserted provisions of Section 10A. This decision was upheld in appeal by the NCLAT.