While exercising the power under Section 482 of the Code to quash the criminal proceedings in respect of non-compoundable offences, which are private in nature and do not have a serious impact on society, on the ground that there is a settlement/compromise between the victim and the offender, the High Court is required to consider the antecedents of the accused; the conduct of the accused, namely, whether the accused was absconding and why he was absconding, how he had managed with the complainant to enter into a compromise. This was held in the case of Mahender Singh v The State, [CRL.M.C.852/2021 &amp; CRL.M.A.4232/2021] by Hon’ble Justice Subramonium Prasad in the High Court of Delhi.   A petition was filed under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (Cr.P.C.) has been filed for quashing FIR, registered in Police Station Neb Sarai, Delhi, for offence under Section 308/34 IPC.  It was reported that when the complainant and his friend Dheeraj were returning from their coaching on his Splendor Bike, at about 8:00-8:15 PM, they were stopped by the accused near Sona Public School. It is stated that the petitioner kicked the bike and the complainant and his friend fell down from the bike and the petitioners started beating Dheeraj.  It is stated that when the complainant tried to stop the accused, the accused started abusing the complainant and started fighting with him. It is stated that the accused Sunny/petitioner No.1 picked up a danda and hit the complainant on his head and the complainant fell on the ground. When people gathered there the accused threatened the complainant of dire consequences and left. It is stated that the brother of the complainant came there and called the Police. A PCR Van came and took the victims to the AIIMS Trauma Centre. In the MLC the doctor recorded the nature of injury and it was opined that the victim had sustained minor head injury with left periorbital swelling. Charge-sheet has been filed against the accused. The accused/petitioner was granted anticipatory bail on 04.02.2018. The present case is for quashing the criminal proceedings for offences under Section 308 IPC. There was a conflict of opinion in various judgments by the Supreme Court as to whether an offence under Section 307 IPC could be quashed by the High Court while exercising its power under Section 482 Cr.P.C. The Supreme Court in State of Rajasthan v. Shambhu Kewat, (2014) 4 SCC 149, held that an offence under Section 307 IPC cannot be quashed by the High Court while exercising its powers under Section 482 Cr.P.C on the ground that the parties have settled their disputes.