The denounced was captured for ruthlessly attacking and balancing the source’s child to no end. For the situation, there was a sole observer who affirmed the wrongdoing. Considering all realities and conditions, the court denied the application for bail to the charged.  The Hon’ble High Court of Patna before Justice Mr. Madhuresh Prasad in the matter of MD Raju v. The State of Bihar[Criminal Appeal (SJ) No 1703 of 2021]. 
The Facts of the case were that the allure was documented under Section 14(A)(2) of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Act, 1989 against the refusal of his supplication for ordinary bail passed by Additional Sessions Judge I for the situation enrolled under Section 147, 148, 149, 341, 323, 302, 506 of Indian Penal Code. The witness’ child was mercilessly attacked in his shop and killed by hanging when he requested to take care of the obligations from the charged individual.
The Appellant presented that few people have been involved by the general and omnibus claim. The appealing party had no criminal predecessor. The source’s rendition was not as an onlooker. There could have been no different wounds in the after-death report aside from strangulation. The autonomous observer had expressed in regards to seeing the attack executed by the charged.
Other candidates in a similar matter were not allowed bail and their request was excused by the Court. The Court was leaned to give the comparative choice in the current matter too. The Court depended on the sole observer and posthumous report, and in the light of current realities and conditions introduced by both sides, the Court chose the matter.
The Hon’ble High Court Of Patna held,”… taking into account nature of allegation in the First Information Report, and accommodation of gatherings, a case for award of normal rescue isn’t made. The reviled request dated 23.12.2020 doesn’t need obstruction by this Court, which is, appropriately, avowed. The criticized request dated 23.12.2020 passed by Additional Sessions Judge I-cum-Special Judge, SC/ST Act, Purnea regarding Special (SC/ST) Case No 72 of 2020/CIS No 72 of 2020 emerging out of K Hat PS Case No 261 of 2020 is attested.” The allure was excused by the High Court and the petition for bail of the litigant was dismissed for the situation.
Click Here to Read the Judgment
Judgment Reviewed by Nimisha Dublish
 The Facts of the case were that the allure was documented under Section 14(A)(2) of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Act, 1989 against the refusal of his supplication for ordinary bail passed by Additional Sessions Judge I for the situation enrolled under Section 147, 148, 149, 341, 323, 302, 506 of Indian Penal Code. The witness’ child was mercilessly attacked in his shop and killed by hanging when he requested to take care of the obligations from the charged individual. The Appellant presented that few people have been involved by the general and omnibus claim. The appealing party had no criminal predecessor. The source’s rendition was not as an onlooker. There could have been no different wounds in the after-death report aside from strangulation. The autonomous observer had expressed in regards to seeing the attack executed by the charged. Other candidates in a similar matter were not allowed bail and their request was excused by the Court. The Court was leaned to give the comparative choice in the current matter too. The Court depended on the sole observer and posthumous report, and in the light of current realities and conditions introduced by both sides, the Court chose the matter. The Hon’ble High Court Of Patna held,”… taking into account nature of allegation in the First Information Report, and accommodation of gatherings, a case for award of normal rescue isn’t made. The reviled request dated 23.12.2020 doesn’t need obstruction by this Court, which is, appropriately, avowed. The criticized request dated 23.12.2020 passed by Additional Sessions Judge I-cum-Special Judge, SC/ST Act, Purnea regarding Special (SC/ST) Case No 72 of 2020/CIS No 72 of 2020 emerging out of K Hat PS Case No 261 of 2020 is attested.” The allure was excused by the High Court and the petition for bail of the litigant was dismissed for the situation.