The onus of proof to show that the employee was in actual and continuous service of the employer during the disputed time falls on the employee. The Supreme Court bench consisting of J. L. Nageswara Rao, J. Navin Sinha and j. Indu Malhotra allowed the Special Leave Petition filed by the State of Uttarakhand against an ex-employee in the case of State of Uttarakhand &amp; Ors. v. Smt. Sureshwati [Civil Appeal No. 142 of 2021]. The respondent was initially engaged as an Assistant Teacher in Jai Bharat Junior High School after which she worked as a clerk. Subsequently, the District Basic Education Officer granted approval to the appointment of the Teachers, Clerk and Peon in the School, including the respondent. During this period, the School was an unaided private institution. Many years later, the School started receiving grant-in-aid from the State, and came to be governed by the Uttaranchal School Education Act, 2006. The appellants stated that the respondent had abandoned her service as a clerk when she got married and shifted elsewhere. The respondent, after about 9 years filed a complaint before the School contending that she had worked continuously and that her services were illegally retrenched without granting her any hearing or payment of retrenchment compensation. The inquiry conducted cleared that the respondent had manipulated the School records and hence, was not eligible to any compensation. The respondent filed a complaint before the Labour Commissioner who passed an ex-parte award in favour of the employee. The said award was challenged before the High Court who allowed the writ petition and remanded the case to the Labour Court to decide the matter de novo in accordance with law. The respondent argued that she had been in employment of the School when she was illegally terminated, without holding any enquiry or granting her personal hearing. The Head Master of the School stated that the respondent had only filed a false complaint before the Labour Commissioner when the School became aided and that the allegations were baseless. The Labour Court decided against the respondent to which a writ petition was again filed by the respondent before the High Court. The court allowed the petition only on the grounds that the employer had admitted in the cross-examination that no enquiry was conducted, or disciplinary proceedings initiated regarding the abandonment of service by the employee.