“The paucity of evidence and the pleadings were far from clear” The petitioner seeks to highlight the plight of A-3 is a crucial document in establishing the title of the plaintiffs in the property. In those judicial proceedings it was declared that the defendants in that suit had no title to the tress. It would appear that in the island, the title to the trees is relatable to the title to the land. That finding gets corroboration from other judicial proceedings under Ex. A-4, A-8 and A-9. It would thus be clear that the title of the property which is the subject matter of the partition suit in favour of the respondents, stands established. The appellate Court had not considered these documents in proper perspective and the effect of those documents on the rights of the parties. The plaintiffs and the first defendant are children of Ahmad Malmi through his first and second wives respectively. The only claim was with regard to one item, namely, Konchukakkada property.It is seen that the case of the plaintiffs was that it was left undivided to the extent of their 3/4th share therein of their father and that; therefore, they are entitled to partition and separate share.PROCEDURAL HISTORY:High Court in Second Appeal No.542/75 passed on 13.2.1979, we are of the view that the High Court has rightly interfered with the concurrent finding of fact recorded by the trial Court as well as by the appellate Court and decreed the suit.The trial Court had wrongly proceeded on the premise of burden of proof on the plaintiff which was corrected by the appellate Court.  However, the appellate Court committed another error of not considering the documentary evidence in proper perspective of the respective claims of the parties.ISSUE BEFORE THE COURT:Whether there was any error of law made by the courts?RATIO OF THE COURT:The court held that the previous court finding is based on total misconceptions as to the nature of the documents relied upon. The finding is not reasonably supported by any evidence whatever. On the other hand the evidence to the contrary was ignored. Exts. A-1 to A-3 as well as Exts. A-4, A-6, A-8 and A-9, whatever their evidentiary value, were a pointer in the opposite direction. Exts A-1 to A-3 showed that the suit properties were gifted in favour of the plaintiff. Ext. A-4 showed that the authorities competent to decide on title to coconut trees considered that the trees standing in the suit property belonged to the plaintiffs. The court pointed that Ext. A-4 showed that the authorities competent to decide on title to coconut trees considered that the trees standing in the suit property belonged to the plaintiffs. It would appear, as stated by the lower appellate court, that on the island at the relevant time, disputes as to title to properties arose only in the form of disputes about trees. The dispute in regard to the trees in Ext. A-4 proceedings was thus a dispute in regard to the ownership of the property in which the trees stood. Exts. A-8 and A-9 proceedings confirmed the validity of Ext. A-3 and rejected the 1st defendant’s contentions to the contrary. The statement of the 2nd defendant in his capacity as the power-of-attorney-holder of the 1st defendant’s contentions to the contrary. The statement of the 2nd defendant in his capacity as the power-of-attorney holder of the 1st defendant to the effect that Attah Mohammad had rights in the suit property is also very significant. The Munsif as well as the Judge felt that there was a paucity of evidence and the pleadings were far from clear. As stated by them, the pleadings on the island at the relevant time were not drafted by experts. The court held that in this case was not conducted with the assistance of counsel, as the parties were represented by local Mikthiars who had no legal training. Only at the appellate stage did counsel appear. But with all this infirmity and handicaps, it seems to me that one thing stands out clear, and that is, the property in question belonged to Ahmmad Malmi and his nephew Abdul Rahman and they were self-acquisitions of those persons. It is also clear that Abdul Rahman transferred his share in the property to Pathumma and her children including the Ist plaintiff. The court further stated that furthermore, the plaintiffs are the heirs of Ahmmad Malmi. The only defendant who was personally connected with Ahmmad Malmi was the 1st defendant who was born to him by his second marriage. The plaintiffs recognise the rights of defendants 1, 2 and 5 to claim their share in the property in accordance with their personal law. The case of the plaintiffs appears to be reasonable, just and in the circumstances, well founded. The court held that they are entitled to a decree The Munsif after finding that the plaintiff did not discharge their burden to prove that the suit property was available for partition, worked out the share to which the parties were entitled in the event of his finding on the question of partition being reversed in appeal. The allotment of shares by the Munsif has not been challenged, and the court therefore, accepts it as final.DECISION HELD BY COURT:The court finally held that the parties have to work out their rights in furtherance thereof.The court held that having considered the totality of the facts and circumstances, the court the considered the view that the learned Judge had rightly interfered with the concurrent finding of fact recorded by the trial court and the appellate court and granted a preliminary decree for partition.The court did not find any error of law much less substantial question of law, for interference.