The issue placed before consideration of the bench of Kerala High Court consisting of Justice Devan Ramachandran was legality of unauthorized installation of flag masts of various political parties across the state in the matters between The Manam Sugar Mills Co-operative Ltd. v. Deputy Superintendent of Police W.P.(C)Nos. 22750 of 2018, 25784 of 2018 and 42574 of 2018 decided on 19.1.2022. The facts of this case are that this petition is by a property owner who approached the Court through counsel Adv.RT Pradeep, seeking police protection to remove flagpoles allegedly erected on his property by political parties. The Amicus Curiae (Sri. Hareesh Vasudevan) informed the court that only because this Court has not issued orders in the last few months, that unauthorized Boards/Banners/Flags are no longer allowed if they come to occupy the public spaces of the state.Although the Road Safety Commissioner has issued order dated 06/02/2020 prohibiting the same in any public space, including pedestrian paths, guardrails, medians, traffic islands, etc. However, various individuals and organizations seem to have the impression that they can still violate this and will not take any action against them.One reason why this threat is not fully contained is because ad agencies have been tasked with installing them, and these agencies do so without even realizing the relevant laws, especially since some of their employees are not from Kerala. The Kerala High Court held that the licenses of printing houses/advertising agencies that are found to have erected such flagpoles on behalf of political parties and others will be revoked. The Court decided that the larger question of such facilities elsewhere should also come to the attention of the authorities and gathered together several petitions on the same subject. As the government has allowed political parties to continue the practice of erecting flagpoles wherever they wish, without consequences, the government has ordered strict action against those who fail to remove these facilities in accordance with the law. The following guidelines have been issued by the Court: