The petitioner was held liable in a case and was sentenced to 7 years of imprisonment along with fines and other imposition of punishments. The Petitioner however established the grounds for granting bail on the basis of the conviction being not sustainable under law. Hon’ble High Court of Patna before Justice Mr. Birendra Kumar in the matter Vakil Paswan v. The State of Bihar[Criminal Appeal (SJ) No.3154 of 2019].  The facts of the case were that the learned Trial Judge viewed the litigant to be entirely blameworthy for offenses under Sections 376/511, 354, and 354(B) of the Indian Penal Code by the criticized judgment. The learned Trial Judge granted thorough detainment for a considerable length of time and a fine of rupees 5,000 for an offense under Sections 376/511 of the Indian Penal Code and in default of installment of fine thorough detainment of one year was granted for an offense under Section 354 of the Indian Penal Code and in default of installment of fine, there is heading of one-month thorough detainment. For an offense under Section 354(B) of the Indian Penal Code, thorough detainment of five years was granted other than a fine of rupees 2,000 and in default of installment of fine, the litigant was coordinated to go through additional four months thorough detainment. The sentences have been requested to run simultaneously by the condemned request. Learned direction for the appealing party battles that there is the absence of dependable proof on the personality of the litigant to be engaged with the event. Subsequently, the judgment of conviction isn’t economical in law. a trade-off in such cases ought not to be supported nor the trade-off ought to be made the premise of absolution or decrease of the sentence. Nonetheless, the Court can’t close its eyes to the enthusiasm for proof accessible on the record disregarding the factum of giving and take. The prosecutrix doesn’t say that the other three observers P.W. 1 Laxman Paswan, P.W. 2 Saroj Paswan, or P.W. 3 Ramesh Paswan had gone to her home on her caution. In this way, the declaration of P.Ws. 1, 2, and 3 that they found out about the event from the prosecutrix has no evidentiary worth. The learned Trial Judge has not doled out any relevant justification for distrusting the assertion of the prosecutrix that because of haziness, she was unable to distinguish the denounced. P.W. 3 has conceded that he came to at the spot of event following ten minutes of the event. The previously mentioned proclamation of P.W. 3 adulterates his case to have seen the litigant escaping from the place of the prosecutrix. Accordingly, aside from the factum of giving and take, fairly even in the wake of disregarding compromise, the arraignment proof doesn’t rouse certainty in regards to the association between the offenses affirmed and the inclusion of the appealing party. Consequently, the litigant merits the advantage of uncertainty. As per the prosecutrix, other relatives were there in one more space at the hour of the event, however, they were not inspected as arraignment proof. The Hon’ble High Court of Patna held,” The learned Judge has not considered the aforesaid infirmities in the prosecution case. Hence, the impugned judgment and sentence is fit to be set aside. Accordingly, this appeal is allowed.”