The overriding effect provided in Section 98 of the MV Act, 1988 Act operates only in case of an inconsistency on a legal position [Case Brief] Ambala Bus Syndicate Pvt. Ltd. V/S Chandigarh Administration &amp; Ors. Case name: Ambala Bus Syndicate Pvt. Ltd. Versus Chandigarh Administration &amp; Ors. Case number/Citation: Civil Appeal No(S). 10002/2018 (Arising From Slp(C) No(S).19092/2011) Court: Supreme Court, Civil Appellate Jurisdiction Bench: J. Joseph Kurien J. Sanjay Kishan Kaul Decided on: September 26, 2018. Relevant Act/Sections: Section 88, 98 of Motor Vehicles Act, 1988      The appellant was aggrieved by the judgment dated 21.04.2011 passed by the Division Bench of the High Court of Punjab and Haryana at Chandigarh in Letters Patent Appeal No.1098 of 2010, whereby the Division Bench overturned the view taken by the learned Single Judge of the High Court and held that the appellant cannot operate its stage carriages beyond the territory of Punjab in view of the 1998 Scheme, as amended in 2001.The relevant consideration in the impugned order read: “The 1998 Scheme and the modified Scheme of 2001 does not permit non-air conditioned buses of the private operators (persons/agencies) to operate in the U.T., Chandigarh. Section 66 of the 1988 Act prohibits an owner of the motor vehicle to permit use of his vehicle as a transport vehicle in any public place whether or not carrying any passengers or goods without permit granted or counter-signed by the competent authority. This Section necessitates a permit for a vehicle to be used as a transport vehicle. Section 88 of the 1988 Act provides counter-signatures of a permit granted in any one State to be valid in any other State. Since the 1998 Scheme of the U.T. Chandigarh excludes the operation of private operators altogether, which Scheme has been framed under Section 99 read with Section 100 of the 1988 Act falling in Chapter VI of the 1988 Act, the same shall have an overriding effect. If that be so, the respondent-Company, a private operator, has no right to claim counter-signatures from the Authority of U.T. Chandigarh on the permit issued to it by the Authority of the State of Punjab under the Reciprocal Agreement dated 4.6.2008 also. In the light of the above conclusions reached by us, the respondent-Company cannot claim counter-signatures on an inter-State permit from the Authority of U.T., Chandigarh to operate a non-air conditioned bus in the territory of U.T. Chandigarh.” ISSUE BEFORE THE COURT: Whether the appellant can claim counter-signatures on an inter-State permit from the Authority of U.T., Chandigarh to operate a non-air conditioned bus in Chandigarh? RATIO OF THE COURT: The court held that the division bench had missed the crucial relevance and effect of the reciprocal Agreement of 2008, which came into effect on 04.06.2008, which specifically provides for counter signature of non-A.C. buses.The court held that the Scheme is unilateral, whereas the reciprocal agreements are bilateral. Despite the availability of Scheme, the Union Territory of Chandigarh and the State of Punjab have consciously entered into a reciprocal agreement permitting the non-A.C. buses, for which the State of Punjab had issued permits prior to 1966 and it continued to be renewed by the State of Punjab to operate in the Union Territory of Chandigarh.The court also observed that such mileage had been taken into consideration for the mileage entitlement of the Union Territory of Chandigarh, in the reciprocal agreement which has come into effect on 04.06.2008. Therefore, unless the reciprocal agreement is superseded by a fresh agreement or unless there is a new scheme framed by the Union Territory of Chandigarh specifying the provisions to the contrary, the buses operated by the appellant, which had permits issued prior to 1.11.1966 and so long as they are renewed by the State of Punjab, the Union Territory of Chandigarh cannot refuse counter signature for the reason that the permits already issued in 1966 had outlived its life after five years of the reorganization. The overriding effect provided in Section 98 of the said Act operates only in case of an inconsistency on a legal position. There was no such situation in the present case. DECISION HELD BY COURT:  The decision of division bench was set aside and that of Single judge was restored.The appeal was accordingly, disposed of. The consequences to follow and needful shall be done within four weeks.