In the interests of equity, good conscience and justice followed by a reading of Article 21 of the Indian Constitution, the privacy of a married couple must not be interfered with, and in case such privacy and peaceful existence is being threatened, the local police must ensure that such interference is checked. A single judge bench of Hon’ble J.J. Munir., while adjudicating the matter in – Smt. Yati @ Kahkasha And Another v. State Of U.P. And 3 Others; [WRIT – C No. – 12655 of 2021], dealt with the issue of an inter-religious marriage. The first petitioner is a young woman whose date of birth according to her High School Certificate is 22.02.2002. She is thus 19 years old and a major. She has married the second petitioner, also a major, according to her free will. It is stated that the first petitioner is Muslim by birth but has a great faith in the Hindu religion. She has adopted the Hindu religion and a Hindu name Yati in place of her native name, Kahkasha. She has also moved the requisite application to the District Magistrate, Meerut and got the necessary news items published in a newspaper regarding the change of her name and religion. A copy of this publication and the application made to the District Magistrate, Meerut is annexed to the writ petition. It is urged that the first petitioner and the second petitioner have married according to Hindu rites at the Arya Samaj Mandir, Maliyana, Meerut and have applied for registration of their marriage before the Registrar of Marriages, Meerut. However, their marriage has not been registered till date. It is next stated in the petition that the 4th respondent, who is the father of Yati, petitioner no. 1 is greatly annoyed with the marriage and has threatened the petitioners with death. The petitioners have moved the local police requesting them to save their life. It is further averred in the writ petition that the marriage between parties has met with disapproval of 4th respondent on account of the difference in their religion and the petitioners are required to be protected. Serious threat to the petitioners’ life has been asserted from the 4th respondent and other family members of the first petitioner, including members of the first petitioner’s native community.