“The Chief Justice or the designated Judge under Section 11(6) of the Arbitration Act is free to nominate any qualified person as arbitrator and that the Chief Justice or the designated Judge is not bound to nominate the arbitrator as specified in the agreement” ISSUE AND PROCEDURAL HISTORY:The short question arising for consideration in this case is whether the Chief Justice of a High Court or any person or institution designated by him, while exercising power under Section 11(6) of The Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 (hereinafter referred to as “the Act”) is bound to nominate an arbitrator as specified in the agreement for arbitration.The designated Judge in the High Court took the view that the appellant has lost the mandate to appoint an arbitrator since it failed to appoint the arbitrator within the permitted time and hence nominated an independent arbitrator. RATIO OF THE COURT:Mr. Maninder Singh, learned Additional Solicitor General, placing reliance on Union of India and another v. M.P. Guptaand Union of India and others v. Master Construction Company, submitted that the designated Judge, exercising the power under Section 11(6) of the Act, is bound to nominate a person as stipulated in the agreement for arbitration.Mr. Dushyant Dave, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the respondent submits that once the right of a party to nominate an arbitrator is forfeited, the Chief Justice or the designated Judge under Section 11(6) of the Act is free to nominate any qualified person as arbitrator and that the Chief Justice or the designated Judge is not bound to nominate the arbitrator as specified in the agreement. Our attention has been invited to Northern Railway Administration, Ministry of Railway, New Delhi v. Patel Engineering Company Limited(2008) 10 SCC 240and North Eastern Railway and others v. Tripple Engineering Works(2014) 9 SCC 288.In Patel Engineering Company Limited (supra), a three-Judge Bench of this Court held that the Chief Justice or the designated Judge, if required, is free to deviate from the arbitration clause and nominate an independent person; but while doing so, due regard shall be given to the qualifications prescribed in the arbitration agreement, as required under Section 11(8) of the Act.In Indian Oil Corporation and others v. Raja Transport Private Limited(2009) 8 SCC 520, this Court has elaborately discussed the scope of Section 11 of the Act and held that if the circumstances so warrant, the Chief Justice or the designated Judge can ignore the specified arbitrator as stipulated in the agreement.Thus, the issue is no more res integra. Though an arbitrator is specified in the agreement for arbitration, if circumstances so warrant, the Chief Justice or the designated Judge is free to appoint an independent arbitrator, having due regard to the qualification, if any, and other aspects as required under Section 11(8) of the Act.The designated Judge of the High Court has only exercised his powers in terms of the agreement by nominating an independent arbitrator. DECISION HELD BY COURT: Thus, the court find no merit in this appeal and the same is accordingly dismissed. There shall be no order as to costs.