The testimony of a victim of sex offence is entitled to great weight before the court and therefore the accused person can be convicted for rape solely on the testimony of the victim, given that is trustworthy and well corroborated by medical evidence or other witnesses. This was held in the judgement passed by a single member bench of the High Court of Orissa consisting of Justice S.K. Sahoo in the case of Madhusudan Naik v State of Orissa [JCRLA No. 74 of 2016] on the 15th of July 2021. As per the prosecution’s case, the victim was attending the call of nature at a Nala near her village Jurapali in Sambalpur. The appellant allegedly came up from behind her and forcibly started committing sexual intercourse with her. Upon hearing the victim screaming, other villagers including the appellant’s brother came rushing towards the scene of crime as the appellant fled from there. On the same day, the victim lodged a First Information Report before the A.S.I. of Garposh and consequently it was filed against the Appellant under Section 376 of the Indian Penal Code for the offence of rape. Over the course of investigation, the victim as well as 13 other witnesses were examined and questioned. Additionally a thorough medical examination was also conducted. The medical examination indicated severe injuries on her neck, waist and right hand. However the appellant’s counsel contended that none of the evidence present was enough to convict the appellant beyond all doubt. The appellant counsel also pointed out a small contradiction that the victim claimed that the appellant ran away as the villagers reached the scene where another witness claimed that the appellant started running away as they started beating him. The High Court however refused to accept this argument and stated that the victim of a rape crime is often the best witness as she is the least likely person to exculpate the real offender. It was also added that her statement corroborated to the medical evidence and witness statement built a very strong case and the tiny irrelevant contradictions were to be ignored.