Government shall have regard to the conditions of work and benefits provided for the contract labour in that establishment and other relevant factors 136 workers were employed by the contractor M/s. TDI International Pvt. Ltd. to do the work of trolley retrieving at the Domestic and at the International Airport at Delhi in the year 1992. In view of the perennial nature of the work, the workmen approached the Contract Labour Court for abolition of contract labour system and for their absorption as regular employees. AAI came into force merging the International Airport Authority Act, 1971 and the National Airport Authority Act, 1985. 136 workers were employed by the contractor M/s. TDI International Pvt. Ltd. to do the work of trolley retrieving at the Domestic and at the International Airport at Delhi in the year 1992. In view of the perennial nature of the work, the workmen approached the Contract Labour Court for abolition of contract labour system and for their absorption as regular employees. AAI came into force merging the International Airport Authority Act, 1971 and the National Airport Authority Act, 1985.  On 26th July, 2004 the Central Government accepted the recommendations of the Contract Labour Court and issued notification dated 26th July, 2004 abolishing the contract labour system. This notification was challenged by AAI before the High Court of Delhi.  Taking note of the ONGC judgment reported in Oil and Natural Gas Commission and Another Vs. Collector of Central Excise 1992 Suppl. (2) SCC 432 the High Court vide judgment dated 3rd February, 2005 held that the present proceedings cannot be proceeded with till the matter is resolved by the High Powered Committee (HPC). Accordingly, the matter went to the HPC and the notification was not given effect to. Meanwhile, 136 workers who were engaged as Trolley retrievers by the contractor M/s. TDI International Private Limited working at the airport since 1992 were removed from service on 5th December, 2003 as the contract of M/s. TDI International Private Limited had come to an end and a new contractor Sindhu Holdings came in its place. These 136 members filed Writ Petition No.15156 of 2006 before the learned Single Judge of the High Court of Delhi praying for their absorption in service as regular employees and for implementation of the notification dated 26th July, 2004. PROCEDURAL HISTORYThe learned Single Judge of the High Court after hearing the parties including DIAL vide judgment dated 28th November, 2006 held that the establishment of AAI is no longer in existence and has changed.  As such, the notification dated 26th July, 2004 cannot be applied to the new entity DIAL.  The appropriate government shall have to issue a fresh notification.  Consequently, the Writ Petition filed by the said 136 workers stood dismissed by the learned Single Judge of the High Court. Indira Gandhi International Airport TDI Karamchari Union preferred LPA No.38 of 2007 against the judgment of the learned Single Judge.  The Union of India also preferred LPA No.1065 of 2007 against the judgment of the learned Single Judge. During the pendency of these LPAs, an order dated 24th September, 2007 was passed by the Chief Labour Commissioner, Government of India holding that the appropriate government for DIAL is the Central Government. By order dated 22nd November, 2007 the documents and file relating to DIAL were sent to the Central Government.  These orders were challenged by DIAL in Writ Petition (C) No.139 of 2008.  After getting the permission, AAI filed another Writ Petition (C) No.6763 of 2008 challenging the said notification on merit.  The Division Bench of the High Court heard all these matters together and passed the impugned order of 18th December, 2009. The review petition was preferred by the Union of India which was decided on 12th March, 2010 by the High Court modifying para 61 of the impugned judgment.  Against the 7impugned judgment of the Division Bench of the High Court, two appeals were preferred by DIAL and three by AAI and one by the Indira Gandhi International Airport TDI Karamchari Union. ISSUE BEFORE THE COURT:Who is the appropriate government for DIAL under the CLRAA and ID Act?  This is the subject matter of SLP (C) No.369 of 2010 filed by DIAL? Whether the notification dated 26th July, 2004 is applicable to DIAL as it is issued by the Central Government which is not the appropriate government for DIAL? Whether the notification that applies to the ‘establishment of AAI’ will be applicable to the ‘establishment of DIAL’ which only came into existence on 4th April, 2006?  This is the subject matter of SLP (C) No.377 of 2010 filed by DIAL? Whether the Notification dated  26th July, 2004 issued by the Central Government under Section 10 (1) of the Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Act, 1970 prohibiting employment of contract labour of trolley retrievals in the establishment of the Airport Authority of India (for short, ‘AAI’) at the Indira Gandhi International Airport and Domestic Airport at Delhi  would be applicable to the Delhi International Airport Private Limited or not?Whether DIAL works under the Central Government and whether the Central Government is the ‘appropriate government’ for DIAL? Whether the trolley retrieval services performed by DIAL are done “for the transport by air of persons, mail, or any other thing? RATIO OF THE COURT:A close reading of the objects and reasons indicates that the Central Government under Section 12A of the AAI Act has retained the power to give directions in the public interest or in the interest of better management to lease the premises of the airport to carry out some of its functions under Section 12A, as the authority may deem fit.  Some of its (AAI’s) functions have been leased out to DIAL.  This has been done under Section 12A(2) with the previous approval of the Central Government.  On proper scrutiny of the provisions of the AAI Act, it is abundantly clear that the Central Government has control over AAI and AAI has control over DIAL.  DIAL claims that if AAI’s industry was being carried out under the authority of the Central Government under Section 2 of the ID Act, there would have been no need for the legislature to separately include AAI as an “enumerated industry”.  Such reasoning would be seen on a plain reading of the phrase: “under the authority of the Central Government”, as DIAL itself has admitted that all these industries, on a cursory look, seem to be by or under the control of the Central Government. A close reading of the objects and reasons indicates that the Central Government under Section 12A of the AAI Act has retained the power to give directions in the public interest or in the interest of better management to lease the premises of the airport to carry out some of its functions under Section 12A, as the authority may deem fit.  Some of its (AAI’s) functions have been leased out to DIAL.  This has been done under Section 12A(2) with the previous approval of the Central Government.  On proper scrutiny of the provisions of the AAI Act, it is abundantly clear that the Central Government has control over AAI and AAI has control over DIAL.  DIAL claims that if AAI’s industry was being carried out under the authority of the Central Government under Section 2 of the ID Act, there would have been no need for the legislature to separately include AAI as an “enumerated industry”.  Such reasoning would be seen on a plain reading of the phrase: “under the authority of the Central Government”, as DIAL itself has admitted that all these industries, on a cursory look, seem to be by or under the control of the Central Government. Further, this line of thinking would imply that none of the many industries enumerated in ID Act can be held to act “under the authority of the Central Government”.  While this is conceivably the case, it may be more likely that the authors of the ID Act, in listing the enumerated industries, simply wanted to ensure that those industries were covered by the Act, without meaning to affect the separate issue of whether those industries were also acting “under the authority of the Central Government.” Further, while it is fair to assume that the legislature attempts to avoid tautology, such canons are not necessarily dispositive.  It is well established canon of statutory construction that the legislature is known to avoid tautology and redundancy.  The crucial questions which need our adjudication are: whether DIAL works under the Central Government and whether the Central Government is the ‘appropriate government’ for DIAL? The AAI Act was passed by the Central Government “to provide for the constitution of the Airports Authority of India’ which was in turn charged with the “better administration and cohesive management of airports.”  Preamble to Section 12A of the AAI Act allows AAI to contract with third parties to perform some of AAI’s functions (in the public interest or in the interest of better management of airports).  It was this proviso which allowed AAI to assign some of its functions to  DIAL through OMDA, responsibility for trolley collection services at the Indira Gandhi International Airport and the domestic airport. DIAL claims that if AAI’s industry was being carried out under the authority of the Central Government under Section 2 of the ID Act, then there would have been no need for the legislature to separately include AAI as an “enumerated 29industry”. On the one hand, this argument of DIAL is correct. On the other hand, however, such reasoning would seem to contradict a plain reading of the phrase “under the authority of the Central Government” as DIAL itself has admitted, “all these industries, on a cursory look seem to be by or under the control of the Central Government.” Further, this line of thinking would imply that none of the many industries enumerated under Section 2 of the ID Act can be held to act “under the authority of the Central Government”.  While this is conceivably the case, it may be more likely that the framers of the ID Act, in listing the enumerated industries simply wanted to ensure that these industries were also acting “under the authority of the Central Government.”  In the instant case under Section 12A of the AAI Act all functions have been given to DIAL except watch and ward function, air traffic service and civil enclaves.  From the provisions of OMDA, it is clear that all functions of AAI barring reserved activities and all land except certain carved out assets has been given to DIAL.  DIAL has admitted that AAI has transferred to it all functions except those related to watch and ward, air traffic service and civil enclaves, none of which can be considered as “air transport service”.  That being the case, AAI must have transferred its duty to provide “air transport service” to DIAL and the Central Government must, therefore, be the appropriate government for DIAL under the CLRAA and ID Act. On the one hand, AAI clearly cannot be considered a local authority as it is charged with managing airports throughout India.  On the other hand, AAI also cannot be considered an “office or department of the Government”.  The AAI Act makes clear that AAI must, in certain circumstances, obtain approval from the Central Government, thereby implying that AAI is not itself the Central Government. Therefore, “establishment” in this case cannot refer to “any office or department of the Government or a local authority”, it must refer to a “place where any industry, trade, business, manufacture or occupation is carried on”.   The Division Bench in the impugned judgment held that the establishment for the purposes of the CLRAA is a place where the industrial, trade or business activity is carried on then it necessarily follows in the context of the present case that it is the Delhi Airports which constitute the establishment of AAI and in turn the establishment of DIAL.  Admittedly, DIAL has been leased out the portion of AAI’s work, which DIAL only has incomplete control over as well as the fact that DIAL meets the definition of a contractor under the CLRAA, further suggests that DIAL is nothing more than a contractor for AAI establishment.  DIAL is not, in other words, a principal employer of an independent establishment. That being the case, the 26th July, 2004 notification, declared at AAI establishment, must also apply to DIAL.For the foregoing reasons, it is clear that the notification dated 26th July, 2004 was equally binding on DIAL under the CLRAA and, therefore, DIAL must abolish all contract labour as per the terms of the notification. The court have no hesitation in coming to the conclusion that the Central Government notification dated 26th July, 2004 is clearly binding and applicable to DIAL.  DIAL’s obligation with regard to the contract labour in general is clear from the said notification.  They are liable to be regularized as regular employees of DIAL.  DIAL has replaced many of the workers with other trolley retrievers and it would be unrealistic to expect DIAL to regularize the employment of their current trolley retrievers and member of the workers’ union alike and inequitable to leave the current workers jobless so as to make room for erstwhile workers of DIAL. DECISION HELD BY COURT:In this case the judgment was given by JUSTICE DALVEER BHANDARI that the peculiar facts and circumstances of these cases directing DIAL to regularize services of trolley retrievers who worked with DIAL till 2003 would be harsh, unrealistic and not a pragmatic approach.The court deem it proper to direct DIAL to pay Rupees five lakhs to each of the erstwhile 136 workers of DIAL who were working for them as trolley retrievers till 2003 and in case any worker has expired, then his or her legal heirs would be entitled to the said amount. This compensation is paid to the workers in lieu of their permanent absorption/reinstatement with DIAL and their claim of back wages.   In this case the judgment was given by JUSTICE DALVEER BHANDARI that the peculiar facts and circumstances of these cases directing DIAL to regularize services of trolley retrievers who worked with DIAL till 2003 would be harsh, unrealistic and not a pragmatic approach. The court deem it proper to direct DIAL to pay Rupees five lakhs to each of the erstwhile 136 workers of DIAL who were working for them as trolley retrievers till 2003 and in case any worker has expired, then his or her legal heirs would be entitled to the said amount. This compensation is paid to the workers in lieu of their permanent absorption/reinstatement with DIAL and their claim of back wages.   This is in full and final settlement of entire claims of erstwhile 136 workers of DIAL. The court direct DIAL to pay the amount to these 136 erstwhile workers of DIAL within three months after proper verification. In case the amount, as directed, is not paid within the prescribed period, then it would carry interest at the rate of 12% per month from that point till the amount is paid. These appeals are accordingly disposed of in the aforementioned terms. In the facts and circumstances of these cases, The court direct the parties to bear their own costs.