Prima facie, it seems that the arrest of present applicant is not required to the police for investigating purpose but they may arrest him in compliance of arrest warrant issued by the trial Court due to nonpresence of the applicant while filing of charge-sheet. This was said in the case of Amar Kumar Chaudhary Vs The State Of Madhya Pradesh [MCRC-21301-2021] by Justice Vijay Kumar Shukla in the High Court of Madhya Pradesh The facts of the case are that the applicant is apprehending his arrest in connection with Crime, for the offences punishable under Sections 406 and 420 read with Section 34 of the IPC. Learned counsel for the applicant submits that a false case has been registered against the applicant whereas the applicant is not involved in the alleged offences. Intimation regarding filing of charge-sheet has not been given to applicant. The trial Court has issued the arrest warrant at the first instance without giving any opportunity of hearing to the applicant. He has relied upon the judgment passed by the Hon’ble Apex Court in the case of Indar Mohan Goswami &amp; Ors. V. State of U.P. &amp; Ors [(2007)12 SCC 1], submitting that the warrants either bailable or non-bailable should never be issued without proper scrutiny of facts and complete application of mind due to the extremely serious consequences and ramifications which ensure on issuance of warrants but the trial Court has directly issued the arrest warrant against the applicant. Besides the above, learned Senior counsel argued that investigation is complete, charge-sheet has been filed and no purpose would be serve to send the applicant behind the bars. An opportunity of hearing should have been given to the applicant prior to issuance of arrest warrant. There is no criminal antecedent against the present applicant. There is no probability of his absconding or tampering with the evidence of prosecution Per-contra, learned P.L. for respondent/State opposes the bail application submitting that applicant has committed serious crime and he is not entitled to get anticipatory bail.