The petitioner was alleged to have committed assault against the informant. The Court accepted the appeal for bail after considering the facts and circumstances to be not so grave. It was seen that the disputed matter contained wounds of gentle nature and was straightforward. The Hon’ble High Court of Patna before Justice Mr. Ahsanuddin Amanullah in the matter Aniket Singh v. The State of Bihar[Criminal Miscellaneous No. 37686 of 2020].  The applicant was apprehended arrest regarding a Case, established under Sections 341, 323, 324, 354-B, 447, 448, 379, 504/34 of the Indian Penal Code. The claim against the solicitors is general and omnibus and explicitly against applicant no. 1 that he was the requesting provider; solicitor no. 2 of tearing the garments of the source’s little girl and against candidate no. 3 of attacking with Dabiya on the top of the child of the witness. Learned direction for the candidates presented that there is a land question which is conceded in the actual FIR and the witness’ side was the assailant for which the applicant no. 1 has held up a case. From the case journal, it was presented that there is the claim of attack and attempting to shock the humility by tearing garments. Nonetheless, it isn’t disputed that wounds are gently scraped spot and straightforward. The court gave orders that the candidates will likewise give an endeavor to the Court that they will not enjoy any unlawful/crime, act infringing upon any law/legal arrangements, mess with the proof or impact the observers. Any infringement of the agreements of the bonds or the endeavor will prompt scratch-off of their bail bonds. The applicants will collaborate for the situation and be available under the steady gaze of the Court on every single date. Inability to coordinate or being missing on two successive dates, without adequate reason, will likewise prompt abrogation of their bail bonds. The Hon’ble High Court Of Patna held that the petitioner shall be allowed pre-arrest bail after considering all facts and circumstances.