Where the debtor is to collect &amp; remit there is confidence &amp; trust. Where the debtor is to use &amp; repay on demand, there is no trust There the claimants were Suganchand &amp; Co. They made a claim against the Hanuman Bank in liquidation, praying that they be treated as persons to be paid in full in preference to the ordinary creditors of the bank. Hanuman Bank had its head-quarters in Tanjore, &amp; branches in several places in the Madras State, like Madras, Kumbakonam, Thiruthuraipundi, Madurai, etc. It crashed, &amp; the headquarters suspended payment on 15-7-1947.The Madurai, Kumbako-nam, Thiruthuraipundi &amp; other branches of the Bank suspended payment only on 16-7-1947. Suganchatd &amp; Oo. sold some gooda to Messrs. Swami Foundry, Madurai for Rs. 3235-2-6 in April 1947, &amp; as directed by the vendees, sent the railway receipt with the bill for the above amount through the Madurai branch of the Hanuman Bank Ltd. for collection of the said amount from Swami Foundry, Madurai &amp; for remitting to them the amount so collected through a demand draft. The entire amount of Rs. 3235-2-6 was paid to the Madurai branch of the Hanuman Bank by Messrs. Swami Foundry on 10-7-1947, &amp; the Madurai branch issued a demand draft for the entire amount of Rs. 3235-2-6 on their Madras branch for payment at Madras.This demand draft reached Suganchand &amp; Co. &amp; it was presented to the Hanuman Bank, Madras, on 14-7-1947 through their bankers, the Bharat Bank, for collection. The Hanuman Bank was then about to close its doors, &amp; the draft was returned unpaid with the endorsement, “Awaiting funds; present again”.ISSUE BEFORE THE COURT:Whether the fiduciary relationship of principal &amp; agent or the jural relationship of creditor &amp; debtor will obtain, &amp; in what circumstances each of these relationships will obtain?RATIO OF THE COURT:The court observed after hearing both the learned counsels and looking into the submissions that the law relating to demand drafts dots not present any great difficulty. It is only the application of the law to the particular facts of each of these cases which causes some difficulty. A demand draft is, of course, a bill of exchange drawn by a bank on another bank, or by itself on its own branch, &amp; is a negotiable instrument not offending the Paper Currency Act or the Reserve Bank of India Act.It is very nearly allied to a cheque, the difference between it &amp; a cheque consisting largely in two facts that first is it can be drawn only by a bank on another bank, &amp; not by a private individual as in the case of cheques. Secondly, it cannot so easily be countermanded as a cheque, either by the person purchasing it, as by the drawer of a cheque or by the bank to which it is presented.The law regarding the rights of a purchaser of a demand draft is also well settled. A mere purchaser of a demand draft from a bank is only a creditor of the Bank, &amp; there is no fiduciary relationship between the bank which issued the draft &amp; the customer who took it. The ownership of the money paid for the purchase of the draft passes to the Bank, as it is one of the usual &amp; recognised banking transactions, &amp; the purchaser gets what he has bargained for, namely, a draft of the bank, the payment of which depends on the solvency of the head office at the time of the presentation of the draft. See In re Oriental Bank Corporation ; Ex parte Guillemin, (1884) 28 ch. 634 at p. 641 ; In re Travancore National &amp; Quilon Bank, A. I. R. (27) 1940 Mad 101; The Official Assignee v. Natesam Pillai, A. I. R. (27) 1940 Mad. 441 ; The Alliance Bank of Simla Ltd. v. Amritsar Bank, A. I. R. (2) 1915 Lah. 214; Indian Hume Pipe Co. Ltd. v. Travancore National &amp; Quilon Bank Ltd., I.L.R. (1943) Mad, 187; In re Noakhali Union Bank Ltd., 54 C.W.N. 744 and In re Calcutta Commercial Bank Ltd., 54 C. W. N. 747.The court observed that this court did not saw anything against the validity of such an agreement strictly restricted as stated above, &amp; applied only to cases where the bank has not accounted for the money collected by it on behalf of the principal, &amp; covered by the draft, by paying it out either to the principal or his nominee or by purchasing a draft on any other bank as per the instructions of the principal by paying the amount collected for that purpose. Such a restricted &amp; exceptional case would only amount to something similar to engaging a man to carry coins or currency notes in specie, paying him wages for such transmission, the only difference being that the man engaged will be the bank &amp; that the transmission charges will be much lower, &amp; that an instrument called the draft is used in the place of the coins or the currency notes. Of course, there must be the clearest proof that the Bank was not to use the sum for its own purpose, &amp; that the holder of the draft uses it only for the transmission of the money. Thus, if the draft is negotiated by the person getting it, in favour of another, the ordinary incidence of law will at once operate &amp; make the assignee only a mere; creditor of the bank, the relationship of principal &amp; agent having terminated.The important distinction between the two cases is the existence of the fiduciary relationship between the bank &amp; the customer in the first case which entitles the customer to preferential payment in full on liquidation, &amp; the mere relationship of creditor &amp; debtor in the second case. The second case will, of course, also exist where the relationship of principal &amp; agent has terminated by payment of the money collected to the principal or his nominee or by purchasing a draft on another bank on his instructions. The mere fact that the money BO collected by the bank has been mixed up with money of its own is immaterial so long as there is a fund on which the principal cestui que trust can lay his hands.The court contended that all the three appellants only wanted the demand drafts for the purpose of transmitting the money to themselves. None of them had any banking accounts, current or deposit, with the Hanuman Bank &amp; in the case of the Indian Mutual Life Association they had expressly declined to open an account with the Hanuman Bank. In the case of the Indian Mutual Life Association, it is also clear from the correspondence between the parties; &amp; especially the letter of the Hanuman Bank dated 30-5-1947, that the sending of the drafts was understood by the parties to be not a discharge of the bank’s obligation as agent for collection, &amp; that the proceeds of the drafts had to be realised by the Indian Mutual Life Association &amp; credited towards the premia collected by the Bank as its agent &amp; a receipt given.The drafts, also called cheques in the Bank’s correspondence, issued to the Indian Mutual Life Association &amp; to Suganchand &amp; Co., the appellants in O. S. A. Nos. 99 &amp; 85 of 1949 respectively, were issued by branches of the Hanuman Bank on the Hanuman Bank, Madras. This court is satisfied, on the evidence, that there was request by the Indian Mutual Life Association &amp; by Suganchand &amp; Co. to the Hanuman Bank, to send the collections by demand drafts on Madras, &amp; that the sending of the drafts on the Hanuman Bank, Madras, would satisfy the terms of that request, &amp; we rejected the contention on behalf of these appellants that the request could be complied with only by sending the demand drafts on another bank in Madras. The court observe that the non-charging of commission on the amount collected &amp; remitted to Suganchand &amp; Co. is of no significance. But this court hold that the Hanuman Bank was entitled to hold the moneys involved in these two appeals only in law, and that the appellants had an equitable right to the moneys, preventing the Official Liquidator from merging them with the general funds of the bank, as the appellants had not got what they had bargained for, namely, the collections made on their behalf, &amp; the bank had not been authorised to use the collections &amp; had not accounted for the collections, as a matter of fact, to the appellants, their principals, by handing them over to the appellants or their nominees, or to another bank for purchasing the demand draft and terminated the fiduciary relationship of principal &amp; agent.The bank had not admittedly handed over the funds either to the nominees of the appellants, or credited them to any accounts of the appellants in the bank &amp; thus terminated the relationship of principal &amp; agent. Of course, if the appellants &amp; their nominees had taken the moneys from the bank &amp; purchased drafts even on the Hanuman Bank, Madras, for the purpose of transmission, &amp; without any express agreement that it was solely for the purpose of transmission &amp; that the bank would be liable to pay the amount of the draft, in any event, at Madras, to the appellants, before being discharged from their liability under the draft, the appellants would only rank as creditors, along with other creditors, &amp; would not be entitled to preferential payment, but that would be because the fiduciary relationship as principal &amp; agent terminated the moment the money was paid over &amp; the new relationship of creditor &amp; debtor took its place.But merely purchasing drafts on their own bank at Madras in the name of the appellants, as per the instructions of the appellants to remit by demand drafts on Madras, &amp; receipt of such drafts by these appellants, did not, in our opinion, terminate the relationship of principal &amp; agent. No. doubt, as Mr. Swaminathan urged, the collections made on behalf of the appellants were mixed up with the other funds of the bank by such purchase of the drafts, but that will not do away with the relationship of principal &amp; agent as already stated, as the funds can be traced from the funds of this bank with the liquidator.It is also significant that the appellants in these cases presented their drafts to the Hanuman Bank, Madras, for payment, &amp; that they were returned unpaid with the obviously disingeneous endorsement “Awaiting funds. Present again”, &amp; the doors of the bank were closed when presentation was made again as requested. Surely equity will compel this bank to honour the draft issued by itself on itself, &amp; will not allow it to escape its responsibility by this kind of tactics. The essence of payment by cheque or draft on oneself is the understanding that it will be honoured, otherwise, it will be like giving a worthless piece of paper as representing a currency note or valuable security. DECISION HELD BY COURT:The court stated that with the request of the appellant in this appeal to be treated as a person entitled to payment in full as a preferential creditor of the Hanuman Bank Ltd. In this view, this appeal deserves to be &amp; is hereby dismissed with costs.The Official Liquidator will, of course meet the costs of the Bank in these appeals &amp; also pay the costs in the two appeals decided against the Hanuman Bank from the Bank’s assets. Advocate’s-fee fixed at Rs. 200 in O. S. A. Nos. 99 &amp; 85 of 1949 (each) &amp; at Rs. 100 in O. S. A. No. 89 of 1949.