 Introduction: This 1992 case dealt with fundamental rights of speech and expression intricately and at length. The petitioner was stopped from using a loudspeaker at a religious congregation by the withdrawal of approval by the Sub-inspector of Police, and the petitioner alleged violation of his freedom of speech and expression. The Court had to deal with the chapter on fundamental rights intricately and point out the reasonable restrictions any right is subjected to. Facts of the case: Case presented by the Petitioners: Case presented by the Respondents: Judgement: The revered Justice C.S. Nair said that “With great respect, I find it difficult to agree with the view of the Gujarat High Court in Indulal v. State, that freedom of speech includes freedom to use sound amplifiers. In Francis v. Chief of Police, relied on by the Gujarat High Court to deliver the verdict, Pearson L.J. had pointed out that: “Some regulation of the use of loudspeaker is required in order that citizens who do not wish to hear what is being said may be protected.” Therefore there were grounds to not rely blindly on the verdict of the case of Francis v. Chief of Police as jurists had had reservations about that verdict too. Justice Nair referred to US cases too. The use of loudspeakers was not considered in the purview of free speech and expression by the First Amendment of the US Constitution. The same view was reiterated in Lehman v. City of Shaker Heights, a US case, where it was opined that though the petitioner had a right to express his views to those who wish to listen, he had no right to force his message upon an audience incapable of declining to receive it. That apart, the freedom guaranteed is freedom of expression of ideas, not freedom of modes of expression. A loudspeaker is a mechanical device, and it has no mind or thought process in it and therefore is not human. The right of speech or expression is a right accorded to a human faculty. A right belongs to human personality, and not to a mechanical device. Further, it was stated that Article 21 guarantees freedom from tormenting sounds. What is negatively the right to be let alone, is positively the right to be free from noise. Therefore the petitioner was prevented from using loudspeakers. But the Court did not condone the wrongful act of the Superintendent of Police. It was stated that if the Police, charged with the power to regulate the use of loudspeakers under the Kerala Police Act, acts beyond the authority law confers upon him, it would be liable to be interdicted. The permission was denied to the petitioner to use a loudspeaker on the ground that holding meetings with loudspeakers would lead to a law and order situation. This reason appeared to be an after-thought, and for a fact, the hazards imagined by the Sub-Inspector of Police were indeed unreal.  The final verdict was passed stating that in the absence of any valid ground, cancellation of the permission granted to the petitioner was arbitrary. While the petitioner had no fundamental right to use a loudspeaker, he was indeed free to avail amenity of using a loudspeaker in a reasonable manner. The Sub-Inspector of Police had to permit the petitioner to hold meetings with the use of loudspeakers of a box type, for purposes of holding meetings as in which the output from the loudspeaker did not exceed the range necessary to reach a willing audience, confined in a reasonable area.  Conclusion It can be concluded, therefore, that no fundamental right is absolute, and the exercise of one’s rights cannot infringe upon the rights of another. The Court in this case checked the misuse of power at the hands of the Police, as well as reiterated the validity and restrictions on the Fundamental Rights. References