The “principal” and “agent” will be held to have consented if they have agreed to a state of facts on which the law imposes the consequences which result from agency, even if they do not recognize it themselves and even if they have professed to disclaim it The facts of the case are that the respondent/plaintiff filed the subject suit for recovery of monies against the appellants/defendants for having supplied a total of 417 numbers of Golden Rocker Sprayers and 100 numbers of knapsack sprayers.The respondent/plaintiff is a manufacturer and supplier of Agriculture, Anit-Malaria and other pest control sprayers and spare parts. Originally, the order which the respondent/plaintiff claimed was placed upon it on 3.12.1999, was for 300 golden rocker sprayers 100 numbers of knapsack sprayers, however, subsequently the quantity of Golden Rocker Sprayers was increased to 400 numbers vide telegram dated 27.12.1999 which was said to have been sent by the appellants/defendants and thereafter to 417 numbers.The respondent/plaintiff claimed that a total amount of ` 8,48,053/- became due from the appellants/defendants and for which the bill bearing No.1558 dated 28.12.1999 was sent to the appellants/defendants. The appellants/defendants paid a sum of ` 4 lacs, leaving a balance of ` 4, 48,053/- and for recovery of which the subject suit was filed.ISSUE BEFORE THE COURT:Whether the judgment of trial court faced any misconduct?Whether the consent is mandatory between principal and agent?RATIO OF THE COURT:This court referred to the judgement of trial court that the trial Court arrived at a conclusion that Mr. M.A. Jose was not the authorized agent and he acted in excess of the authority, consequently the respondent/plaintiff is not bound by the action of Mr. M.A. Jose in receiving back 195 numbers of rocker sprayers and 45 numbers of knapsack sprayers. This conclusion was arrived at firstly on the ground that there was no term and condition in quotation, Ex.P2 dated 29.4.1999 that Mr. M.A. Jose could receive back any goods which were sold by the respondent/plaintiff to the appellants/defendants.Another reason for arriving at the conclusion that Mr. M.A. Jose was not the agent was that because as per the trial Court, there was nothing on record to prove that the respondent/plaintiff by any written communication or by its conduct/representation made the appellants/defendants believe that Mr. M.A. Jose was authorized to take back the goods. Yet another reason for holding that the case of the appellants/defendants is not correct because it was held by the trial Court that respondent/plaintiff wrote letters dated 29.12.1999, 21.1.2000 and 1.3.2000 asking for payment, and to which letters no disputes were raised that payment was not liable to be made on account of goods having been returned to the respondent/plaintiff through Mr. M.A. Jose.This court observed some wholly misconstrued the relevant documents which have been filed and exhibited in the trial Court. In fact, the trial Court has committed clear cut illegality in avoiding to make reference to the various relevant portions of the documents/correspondence existing on record. Once we look at the relevant portions of the documents and correspondence on record, it becomes clear that Mr. M.A. Jose was in fact the agent of the respondent/plaintiff and therefore the appellant/defendant was fully justified in taking Mr. M.A. Jose as the agent of the respondent/plaintiff, who could receive back the goods. BeforeThe court refered to the documents/correspondence on record, it is relevant first to refer to Sections 182, 186 of the Contract Act, 1872 and which Sections read as under:“182. Agent and principal defined. – An agent is a person employed to do any act for another, or to represent another in dealings with third person. The person for whom such act is done, or who is so represented, is called the principal.186. Agents authority may be expressed or implied – The authority of an agent may be expressed or implied.The court stated that the relationship of principal and agent can be express or implied or partly express or partly implied. The relationship of principal and agent therefore can also arise on account of the principal and agent conducting themselves as such. Once a person is taken as an agent unless therefore there are words restricting the authority of the agent, ordinarily an agent would be entitled to represent the principal within the ordinary scope of business conducted by the agent on behalf of the principal. At this stage it is necessary to refer to some of the relevant observations of the Supreme Court on the aspect of relationship of principal and agent as contained in the judgment reported as Chairman, Life Insurance Corpn. and Ors. Vs. Rajiv Kumar Bhasker (2005) 6 SCC 188 “The relationship of principal and agent can only be established by the consent of the principal and the agent. The consent need not necessarily be to the relationship of principal and agent itself. The “principal” and “agent” will be held to have consented if they have agreed to a state of facts on which the law imposes the consequences which result from agency, even if they do not recognize it themselves and even if they have professed to disclaim it. Nor is the use of or omission of the word “agent” conclusive. The consent must, however, have been given by each of them, either expressly or by implication from their words and conduct. Agency is a legal concept which is employed by the Court when it becomes necessary to explain and resolve the problems created by certain fact situations. When the existence of an agency relationship would help to decide an individual problem, and the facts permit a court to conclude that such relationship existed at a material time, then whether or not any express or implied consent to the creation of an agency may have been given by one party to another, the Court is entitled to conclude that such relationship was in existence at the time, and for the purpose in question.The court observed that in the face of the documentary evidence being the plaint where the respondent/plaintiff admits that Mr. M.A.Jose was working on commission with the respondent/plaintiff, i.e. as a commission agent, the specific admission in the letter dated 15.12.1999, Ex.P5/DA that Mr. M.A.Jose was their representative by stating “our representative Mr. Jose” and copy of this letter is marked to Mr. Jose, the fact that Mr. Jose received payment on behalf of the respondent/plaintiff vide Ex.P8/DA dated 15.3.2000, in my opinion, leaves no manner of doubt that Mr. Jose was in fact an agent acting for and on behalf of the respondent/plaintiff. Surely, if “a representative”, a term mentioned in the letter dated 15.12.1999, Ex.P5/DA and by which the subject order was placed, is not an agent then what else is a representative.A representative is indeed a very wide term and such representative can, therefore, unless the scope of authority is specifically curtailed, without doubt, would have led the appellants/defendants to believe that the appellants/defendants could even return the goods to the said agent, Mr. M. A. Jose. Any doubt as to the complete authority of the agent, Mr. M. A. Jose to act for and on behalf of the respondent/plaintiff is clear from the course of dealing including of Mr. M. A. Jose having received the payment as evidenced by Ex.P8/DA dated 15.3.2000. Though, the respondent/plaintiff has conveniently chosen to deny the document being the letter dated 12.1.2000, Ex.DW1/5, and which is a letter on the letter-head of the respondent/plaintiff by which Mr. M.A.Jose took back 35 numbers of Rocker sprayers, in my opinion, such a convenient denial cannot take away the validity and effect of this letter dated 12.1.2000The court observed that the judgement of trial court faced misconduct and this court stated that not too much weight can be attached to the appellants/defendants not replying to the letters dated 29.12.1999, 21.1.2000 and 1.3.2000.This court decided a civil case on balance of probabilities. A civil Court puts all the evidence which have been led in a melting pot so as to determine the final picture which has to emerge. In my opinion, in view of the admitted documents/correspondence on record, there is no manner of doubt that Mr. M.A.Jose was an agent acting for the respondent/plaintiff, and in view of the ratio of the judgment of the Supreme Court in the case of Chairman, LIC (supra),Mr. M.A. Jose clearly had ostensible general authority which was clear from the correspondence between the parties and also the course of dealing, and therefore, the respondent-plaintiff/principal was clearly bound to honour the actions of the agent, Mr. M. A. Jose of having received back the goods as held by the Supreme Court in the case of Chairman, LIC (supra). The respondent-plaintiff/principal is estopped in the facts of the case from denying that actual authority existed in Mr. M.A. Jose in taking back the goods.DECISION HELD BY COURT:At last the court stated that appeal is accepted. Suit of the respondent/plaintiff shall stand dismissed. Parties are left to bear their own costs. Decree sheet be prepared.The bank guarantee furnished by the appellants/defendants pursuant to the order dated 27.4.2005 shall stand discharged. The amount which has been deposited by the appellants/defendants in this Court, being the amount of `22,403/-, along with accrued interest be also released back to the appellants/defendants. Trial Court record be thereafter sent back.