While hearing an appeal petition in the case of Bishal Jaiswal Vs Asset Reconstruction Company (India) Ltd &amp; Anr (Company Appeal (AT) (Insolvency) No. 385 of 2020) the three- judge bench referred the case of V. Padamakumar Vs. Stressed Assets Stabilization Fund (SASF) &amp; Anr. (Company Appeal (AT) (Ins) No. 57 of 2020) for reconsideration. The latter’s verdict was decided by a five-judge bench in the appellate court without giving due consideration for the precedent laid down by Supreme Court as well as various High Courts. In the present matter the appellant had advanced a loan from a consortium of lenders which the corporate debtor could not pay back and the accounts were declared as Non-Performing Asset in 2014 but the application in NCLT was filed in 2018. The adjudicating authority had accepted the application and held that it was not time-barred. Aggrieved by this decision the corporate debtor had filed an appeal. The Corporate Debtor contended that the balance sheet cannot be considered as an acknowledgement under Section 18 of the Limitation Act, 1963. And that the application was filed with a delay of 5 years thus being time-barred. This issue was considered explicitly by the Five Hon’ble Members of this Appellate Tribunal in the case of V. Padamakumar (Supra) and held that the Books of Accounts are required to be prepared under the obligation casted Section 92 of the Companies Act, 2013. Therefore, it cannot amount to an acknowledgement for Section 18 of the Limitation Act, 1963. The Respondents contested that the appellant has acknowledged the debt in its balance sheet and thus right to sue stood extended in terms of Section 18 of the Limitation Act, 1963. It was noted by the Adjudicating Authority that in the Balance Sheet the Corporate Debtor, admitted its liability, which was signed before the expiry of three years from the date of default. The Respondents relied on various precedents of Supreme Court and High Court where it was submitted that it is settled law that the entries made in the Balance Sheet of the Company amounts to an acknowledgement of debt under Section 18 of the Limitation Act, 1963. NCLAT listed the reasons for reconsideration of V. Padmakumar’s Judgment (Supra) as follows: For all the above reasons NCLAT has referred the matter to a Bench of Five Hon’ble Members of this Appellate Tribunal.