“Laws of the land, even to support a gesture of comity to another nation,”  1.     Fugitive Offenders Act, 1881, was inconsistent with Art. 14 of the Constitution of India and was on that account unenforceable after 26th January 1950, Ministry of External Affairs, Government  of India, issued a notification on May 21, 1955, indicating the  procedure for securing the presence of a fugitive offender in India from the United Kingdom and other Commonwealth countries.  2.     The Magistrate concerned is to issue a warrant of arrest of  the  fugitive offender under the Criminal Procedure Code, 1898, and the warrant is to be sent to the Government of India, Ministry of  External  Affairs through the  concerned State Government. After this, the Ministry is to address the appropriate authority in the Commonwealth country through the High Commissioner for India for the surrender of the fugitive offender. 3.     The Indian Extradition Act was passed in 1962, but as Hong Kong was not included in the First Schedule, that Act could not be resorted for the surrender of the respondent who was a fugitive offender residing in Hong Kong.  4.     In the Present case, The Chief Presidency Magistrate Calcutta issued a warrant under the Criminal Procedure Code for the arrest of the respondent and the warrant was forwarded by the Government of West Bengal to the Ministry of External Affairs, Government of India. 5.     The Ministry forwarded the warrant to the High Commissioner for India, Hong Kong, who in his turn requested the Colonial Secretary, Hong Kong, for an order extraditing the respondent under the Fugitive Offenders Act 1881. The Central Magistrate, Hong Kong, endorsed the warrant and directed the Hong Kong police to arrest the respondent referring to the Republic of India as a British possession to which the Fugitive Offenders Act was applicable. ISSUE BEFORE THE COURT: 1.     Is the surrender by one State to another of a person desired to be dealt with for crimes of which he has been accused or convicted and which are justifiable in the courts of the other State? 2.     Whether the Fugitive Offenders Act, 1881, applies to India after 26th January, 1950, when India became a Sovereign Democratic Republic? RATIO OF THE COURT B. Sen and P. K. Chakravarti, the learned counsels for the appellants contended the following:- On April 4, 1966, ordered that the Central Magistrate, Hong Kong, over-ruled the objection raised on behalf of More that the Court had no jurisdiction to proceed in the matter under the Fugitive Offenders Act, 1881, since the Republic of India was no longer a “British Possession”.On May 16, 1966, Hanuman Prasad-father of More moved to the High Court of Calcutta and  filed a petition. The petition was heard before a Division Bench of the High Court. A. Roy, J., held that the warrant issued by the Chief Presidency Magistrate was not illegal and the procedure followed for securing extradition of More was not irregular. In his view, the assumption made by the Central Magistrate, Hong Kong, that for the purpose of the Fugitive Offenders Act, India was a “British possession” was irrelevant since that was only a view expressed by him. S. R. Chari, B. P. Maheshwari and Sobhag Mal Jain (counsels for the respondents) Counsels for the respondent ‘More’ urged that the warrant issued by the Chief Presidency Magistrate was intended to be and could in its very nature be a legal warrant enforceable within India. It had no extra-territorial operation, and could not be enforced outside India, and when the Central Magistrate Hong Kong, purported to endorse that warrant for enforcement within Hong Kong he had no authority to do so.    The respondent being arrested in a foreign country lawfully, by the, order of the Central Magistrate, Hong Kong, had not been surrendered and the invalidity of the warrant issued by the Chief Presidency Magistrate is set up as a ground for refusing to obtain extradition of the offender.   The Justice Shah J. ordered In the course of investigation of offences under ss. 420, 467, 471 and 120 B.I.P. Code, the Officer in charge of the investigation submitted an application before the Chief Presidency Magistrate, Calcutta, for an order that a warrant for the arrest of Jugal Kishore More and certain other named persons be issued and that the warrant be, forwarded with the relevant records and evidence to the Ministry of External Affairs, Government of India, for securing extradition of More who was then believed to be in Hong Kong.  The Chief Presidency Magistrate forwarded to the Government of West Bengal, the warrant with attested copies of the evidence recorded at the enquiry and Photostat copies of documents tendered by the prosecution in evidence “in accordance with the procedure laid down by Ministry of External Affairs, Government of India, letter No. K/52/ 6131/41 dated May 21, 1955.” The warrant was forwarded by the Government of West Bengal to the Ministry of External Affairs, Government of India. Hong Kong, which in his turn, requested the Colonial Secretary, Hong Kong, for an order extraditing More under the Fugitive Offenders Act, 1881, (44 and 45 Vict., c. 69), to India for trial for offences described in the warrant. The Central Magistrate, Hong Kong, endorsed the warrant and directed the Hong Kong Police, pursuant to section 13 of Part 11 and section 26 of Part IV of the Fugitive Offenders Act, 1881. The learned Judge accordingly ordered that the warrant of arrest dated July 30, 1965, issued by the Chief Presidency Magistrate, Calcutta, against More and all subsequent proceedings taken by the Chief Presidency Magistrate and the other respondents be quashed. The State of West Bengal has appealed to this Court with special leave.              The State of Madras v. C. G. Menon and Another In 1954 this Court was called upon to decide a case relating to extradition to Singapore, a British Colony, of a person alleged to be a fugitive offender. The High Court held that the Fugitive Offenders Act was in-consistent with the fundamental right of equal protection of the laws guaranteed by Art. 14 of the Constitution and was void to that extent and unenforceable against the petitioners.  Enactment of the Extradition Act 34 of 1962, the Government of India is prohibited from securing through diplomatic channels the extradition of an offender for trial of an offence committed within India. There was, no illegality committed by the Chief Presidency Magistrate, Calcutta, in sending the warrant to the Secretary, Home (Political) Department, Government, of West Bengal, for transmission to the Ministry of External Affairs, Government of India. DECISION HELD BY COURT:The court held that the appeal must be allowed and the order passed by the High Court is set aside.