When a share is forfeited and re- issued it is not allotment in the sense of appropriation of share out of the authorised and unappropriated capital so as to bring the shares into existence. [Case Brief] Sri Gopal Jalan &amp; Company vs Calcutta Stock Exchange Association Ltd. Case name: Sri Gopal Jalan &amp; Company V/s Calcutta Stock Exchange Association Ltd. Case number: 1964 AIR 250, 1964 SCR (3) 698 Court: The Hon’ble Supreme Court of India Bench: Hon’ble Justice Sarkar Hon’ble Justice Hidayatullah Hon’ble Justice Shah Decided on: 09 May 1963 Relevant Act/Sections: Section 75 of the Companies Act, 2013   The appellant who has been accepted as a shareholder in the respondent Company for the purposes of the present proceedings, complained that the Company had not filed the return required by that section, and therefore, moved the High Court at Calcutta under section 614 of the Act for an order requiring it to do so.The shares with which this case is concerned have been forfeited by the Company under its articles. A reference to some of these articles is necessary before we proceed further. Article 21 of the Articles of Association of the Company authorised its Committee to expel or suspend a member in certain events.The High Court of Calcutta held that the words, ‘allotment of shares’ have been used in section 75 of the Companies Act, 2013 indicate the creation of shares by appropriation out 699 of the unappropriated share capital to a particular person. When a share is forfeited and reissued it is not allotted in the sense of appropriation of share out of the authorised and unappropriated capital so as to bring the shares into existence. A re-issue of a forfeited share is not an allotment of share within the meaning of s. 75 (1) of Companies Act, 2013 but a sale and that being so, no question of filing any return in respect of such re-issue arises. The appellant who has been accepted as a shareholder in the respondent Company for the purposes of the present proceedings, complained that the Company had not filed the return required by that section, and therefore, moved the High Court at Calcutta under section 614 of the Act for an order requiring it to do so.The shares with which this case is concerned have been forfeited by the Company under its articles. A reference to some of these articles is necessary before we proceed further. Article 21 of the Articles of Association of the Company authorised its Committee to expel or suspend a member in certain events.The High Court of Calcutta held that the words, ‘allotment of shares’ have been used in section 75 of the Companies Act, 2013 indicate the creation of shares by appropriation out 699 of the unappropriated share capital to a particular person. When a share is forfeited and reissued it is not allotted in the sense of appropriation of share out of the authorised and unappropriated capital so as to bring the shares into existence. A re-issue of a forfeited share is not an allotment of share within the meaning of s. 75 (1) of Companies Act, 2013 but a sale and that being so, no question of filing any return in respect of such re-issue arises. ISSUE BEFORE THE COURT: What is the meaning to be ascribed to the word “allotment” occurring in S. 75 (1) of the Companies Act, 2013? RATIO OF THE COURT The Court observed that forfeiture of shares is the power of transferring them from the original shareholders to the company and the company can then transfer the shares subject to the same rights and liabilities as if they had not been forfeited.The view well accepted in Company Courts has been that issue of the forfeited shares was not allotment of them but only a sale. The forfeiture itself would be invalid as involving an illegal reduction of capital. If the reissue of a forfeited share is only its sale, then it is not an allotment and no question of filing any return in respect of such reissue arises.It held that when a share is forfeited and re- issued it is not allotment in the sense of appropriation of share out of the authorised and unappropriated capital so as to bring the shares into existence. In the present case both sides proceeded on the basis that the articles of the company dealing with forfeiture of shares which we have earlier set out are valid articles. In other words, it has not been disputed that the Company may validly forfeit shares in terms of those articles.It further clarified that Sub-s. (5) of s. 75 of Companies Act, 2013. provides that no return need be filed in respect of allotment of shares forfeited for non-payment of calls. The word “allotment” in s. 75 (1) should be understood as including the issue of shares forfeited for other reasons, for there is no reason to make any distinction between shares forfeited for non-payment of calls and those forfeited for other reasons in the present context.The court came to the conclusion that apart from sub. Section (5) of section 75 of the Companies Act,2013. all other provisions of the Act clearly contemplated by allotment the creation of shares out of the authorised and unappropriated capital of the Company and not reissue of shares already created by allotment in the manner aforesaid but subsequently forfeited. There would be no justification for altering the meaning of that word “, allotment” occurring in S. 75 (1) of the Companies Act, 2013. DECISION HELD BY COURT: The appeal was dismissed by the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India.  