The order for assessment of property is required to respect certain rights to the property holder which includes his/her right to be present when the assessment is made. It is exercised along with right to raise objections regarding the assessment made. This was held in the judgment passed by a single bench judge comprising HON’BLE MR JUSTICE SANJEEV SACHDEVA, in the matter of M/S AMRAPALI STEELS PVT. LTD. V. NORTH DELHI MUNICIPAL CORPORATION dealt with an issue where the petitioner impugned the assessment order of a property as the property was measured in the absence of the petitioner and the assessment order had been passed retrospectively in respect of portions of the property which were not even constructed in the year considered. The respondent-Corporation had assessed the property of the petitioner retrospectively with effect from 01.04.2004 and demanded an amount of Rs. 21,60,425/- as arrears of property tax including interest and penalty as on 08.06.2021. The Petitioner questioned this assessment order dated 10.06.2021 stating that the property was measured in the absence of the petitioner and assessment order has been passed retrospectively in respect of portions of the property which were not even constructed in the year 2004 and were constructed in the year 2013. The counsel for the petitioner also submits that the petitioner was not given a personal hearing and the respondent-Corporation has not given credit for the amounts already deposited. He submits that approximately a sum of Rs. 3 lakhs have been paid which has not been accounted for by the Corporation. The counsel for the respondent disputed that and submitted that warrants of distress has been issued to the ICICI Bank, Model Town to attach the bank account of the petitioner to an extent of Rs. 18,86,291/- and as per his instructions the said amount has been attached by the bank. The counsel also stated that the respondent-Corporation is willing to give a fresh hearing to the petitioner and  He prays that the amount attached by the bank be directed to be remitted to the Corporation.