It stands proved beyond all reasonable doubt that it is the accused/appellants who, quarreled with the complainant, abused him filthily in the name of his caste in public place, assaulted upon him and injured Mohit by club and caused damage to the vehicle of the complainant by assaulting with a club, resulting in loss of Rs.10,000/- (approx.) to the complainant.  This was said in the case of Prabhakar Yadav vs State Of Chhattisgarh [CRA No. 125 of 2021] by Shri Justice Gautam Chourdiya in the High Court of Chattisgarh  The facts of the case are that in an appeal filed under Section 374(2) Cr.P.C., the appellants have challenged the legality, validity and propriety of the judgment of conviction and order of sentence dated 09.12.2020 passed by the Special Judge in Special Criminal Case under the SC/ST Act No.20/2018, whereby and whereunder the appellants stand convicted and sentenced as under Section 294 and 427of IPC, Section 323/34 of IPC read with Section 3(2)(v)(a) of SC/ST Act and Section 3(1)(s) of SC/ST Act Learned counsel for the appellants submits that the trial Court has not properly appreciated the overall evidence available on record for holding the appellants guilty. He submits that due to previous enmity between the appellants and the complainant, they have been falsely implicated in this case by the complainant party. There are material contradictions and omissions in the statements of the complainant and other witnesses. No cogent evidence is available on record against the appellants. Therefore, the impugned judgment of conviction and order of sentence deserves to be set aside and the appellants be acquitted of the aforesaid charges. Learned counsel for the State submits that conviction and sentence of the accused/appellants are strictly in accordance with law and there is no illegality or infirmity in the same warranting interference by this Court The Court opined that “considering the facts and circumstances of the case and the manner in which the offence took place as stated by the complainant- Rishi which is duly corroborated by the evidence of the witnesses; the prompt FIR; the medical reports proved by treating doctor and further considering the fact that there is no major contradiction or omission in the complainant’s statement as well as in the statements of supporting witnesses affecting the credibility of his version, no any evidence was adduced by the defence to prove false implication of the appellants, the entire evidence available on record, oral and documentary, adduced by the prosecution, the nature of injuries suffered by the complainant and injured Mohit Gupta and proved by the prosecution, it stands proved beyond all reasonable doubt that it is the accused/appellants who on 11 26.02.2018, quarreled with the complainant, abused him filthily in the name of his caste in public place, assaulted upon him and injured Mohit by club and caused damage to the vehicle (motorcycle) of the complainant by assaulting with a club, resulting in loss of Rs.10,000/- (approx.) to the complainant”.