Doing something for the offender is not abetment. Doing something with knowledge so as to facilitate him to commit the crime or otherwise would constitute abetment.  [Case Brief] State of Madhya Pradesh V/s Mukesh &amp; Ors. Case name: State of Madhya Pradesh V/S Mukesh &amp; Ors. Case number: Criminal Appeal number-1087 of 2006 Court: The Supreme Court of India Bench: JUSTICE S.B SINHA, JUSTICE DALVEER BHANDARI Decided on: OCTOBER 19, 2006 Relevant Act/Sections: Section 143 (1) of the Railway Act, 1989, Section 313 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, Section 30 of the Indian Evidence Act    In the present case, the Hon’ble Supreme Court was approached by the state of Madhya Pradesh under the appellate jurisdiction of the court. The petitioner i.e, State of Madhya Pradesh has approached the Supreme Court against the allowance of the revision application filed by the respondents in the High Court of Madhya Pradesh.The respondents in the present case were working as reservation clerks at Indore Railway Station. The Assistant Sub Inspector of General Railway Station came to the reservation office upon receipt of the information that a person had been illegally purchasing tickets from reservation counters. The Inspector thereof apprehended a person named Suresh Shah, for illegal purchasing the tickets. Upon a search conducted on Suresh, 94 tickets along with filled and non-filled reservation demand forms and cash money of Rs. 33,403/-were also recovered from him.Subsequent to this, an FIR was lodged against Suresh. It was further alleged that he has been carrying business in obtaining reservation tickets illegally. PROCEDURAL HISTORY: The Respondents in the present case have been accused of abetting Suresh in commission of the illegal act. The respondents along with Suresh were prosecuted for offences committed under Section 143 (2) and Section 143(1) of the Railway Act 1989, respectively. Whereas Suresh absconded during the trial itself, the respondents were found guilty of the offences levelled against them and were sentenced to undergo 3 years of rigorous imprisonment with a fine of Rs. 10,000/-in default.However, the respondents were further directed to undergo 6 months additional imprisonment. Against which they preferred appeal to the Sessions Judge, consequently being transferred to the 6th Additional Sessions Judge Indore.The appeal was dismissed by the Judge, resulting in filing of revision application by the respondents before the Madhya Pradesh High Court, which allowed the application.Consequent to the allowance of revision application, the state of Madhya Pradesh moves to the Apex Court against such allowance ISSUE BEFORE THE COURT: Whether doing something for the offender amounts to abetment of an offence? RATIO OF THE COURT: The court while examining the facts of the case observed that reservation forms might have been filled up by the main accused Suresh Shah with the help of his associates. And the Respondents who were working in three different counters on two different occasions might not have any hands therein. While issuing tickets they were not able to examine the person before them due to heavy rush at the counters and less time to issue huge number of tickets. Further the main accused used different handwritings on different reservation forms that could not have been figured out by the respondents while checking them.As far as abetment is concerned, the court after analysing the definition of ‘abetment’ given under section 107 of the IPC said that that it requires three essentials viz., instigation to do the wrongful act, engagement in any conspiracy with one or more persons for commission of the act, intentionally aiding to the commission of the act. The court held that neither of the three conditions given under the section were fulfilled by the acts of the respondents. They merely were fulfilling their duties in issuing the tickets and due to rush of people they were not able to locate the illegal acts committed by the main accused Suresh Shah.On this, the court declared that doing something for the offender does not amount to abetment for an offence. However doing something with knowledge to facilitate the commission of the act for the main offender amounts to abetment.The court observed that the respondents by their acts have not violated any rules or directions contained in any circular issued by the concerned authorities in that behalf and declined to interfere with the proceedings before the High Court. DECISION HELD BY COURT: In this case the judgment was given by JUSTICE S.B SINHA that the Court did not find the respondents guilty of abetment under Section 143 (2) for the offence committed by the main accused Suresh Shah. The court found High Court’s observation as sustainable and declared that the State has not been able to show any illegality in the judgment of the High Court.The court considered not to interfere therewith and dismissed the appeal.    