“The courts are not powerless to condone the delay in the facts and circumstances of the case merely because it is a case of the re-filing of the documents” It is contended by the applicant that the impugned award was passed on 2nd June, 2007 by the learned sole Arbitrator in Arbitration Application No. 241/03 wherein the learned Arbitrator passed an award of Rs. 52,05,367/- with interest @ 12% p.a. thereon from 2nd June, 2007 till date of payment as per terms of the award.The petition under Section 34 of the Act was initially filed in the court on 9th August, 2007 vide diary No. 103209 which is within the time period prescribed under the Act. The Dealing Assistant on 13 th August, 2007 raised certain objections that (a) Caveat report be obtained; (b) Memo of Party be filed ; and (c) Urgent application not signed.The objections were removed and it was re-filed again on 31st October, 2007. It was mentioned that the urgent petition was not being filed and the petition may be listed on ordinary basis. However, the registry again raised the objection that the application for condonation of delay in re-filing be filed giving the details of the delay in filing of the petition.The petition was again refiled only in the second week of April, 2008 and again an objection was raised by the registry that the caveat report had not been taken and the details of the delay in re-filing of the petition were not correct.On 23rd May, 2008 the registry again raised the objections that the objections already raised have not been removed and on 26th May, 2008 the petition was re-filed again and came up before court on 28th May, 2008, whereby notice was issued in I.A. No.6734/08 under Section 5 of the Limitation Act for condonation of delay.ISSUE BEFORE THE COURT:Whether the provisions of Section 5 of Limitation Act are applicable while considering the delay in re-filing the petition/objections/documents?Whether the caveat report had not been taken and the details of the delay in re-filing of the petition were not correct?RATIO OF THE COURT:The court stated that the application under Section 5 of the Limitation Act is not maintainable and the delay of more than 30 days after the expiry of the prescribed period of 90 days cannot be condoned. It is also contended that Section 5 of the Limitation Act does not apply to the petition under Section 34 of the Act. The application lacks in detail as it does not give the dates of surgery undergone by the counsel and his recovery from it nor it is explained why the alternative counsel was not engaged earlier as was done later and mixing of files is not a ground for condonation of delay. The delay must be explained day-by-day. It is alleged that it is irrelevant whether the delay is intentional or unintentional as the court does not have the power to extend the time limit prescribed by section 34 of the Act and the delay under any circumstances cannot be condoned.The court refered to the section 34 of arbitration and conciliation act, 1996 that  Application for setting aside arbitral award. xxxxx (3) An application for setting aside may not be made after three months have elapsed from the date on which the party making that application had received the arbitral award or if a request had been made under Section 33 from the date on which that request had been disposed by the arbitral tribunal: Provided that if the Court is satisfied that the applicant was prevented by sufficient cause from making the application within the said period of three months it may entertain the application within a further period of thirty days, but not thereafter.” The court stated that the award was passed by the learned arbitrator on 02.06.2007 and the present petition under section 34 of the Act for setting aside of the part of the award was filed on 09.08.2007. As per the provisions of Section 34(3) of the Arbitration &amp; Conciliation Act, 1996, an application for setting aside may not be made after 3 months from the date on which the party making that application had received the arbitral award. Thus the application under Section 34 of the Act had been filed by the petitioner within the prescribed time.The court observed that in the Act of 1996, there is no express provision excluding application of the provisions of Section 14 of the Limitation Act to an application filed under Section 34 of the Act for challenging an award. Further, there is fundamental distinction between the discretion to be exercised under Section 5 of the Limitation Act and exclusion of the time provided in Section 14 of the said Act. The power to excuse delay and grant an extension of time under Section 5 is discretionary whereas under Section 14, exclusion of time is mandatory, if the requisite conditions are satisfied. Section 5 is broader in its sweep than Section 14 in the sense that a number of widely different reasons can be advanced and established to show that there was sufficient cause in not filing the appeal or the application within time. The ingredients in respect of Section 5 and 14 are different. The effect of Section 14 is that in order to ascertain the date of expiration of the prescribed period, the days excluded from operating by way of limitation have to be added to what is primarilythe period of limitation prescribed.The court contended that the provisions of Section 5 of Limitation Act are neither applicable while adjudicating the condonation of delay in filing the objections u/S 34 nor in the case wherein they were filed within the prescribed time but refiled at the later date. Following the judgment of the Apex Court in the case of Consolidated Engg.’s case (supra) which says that mere inapplicability of Section 5 of Limitation Act will not debar the Court from looking into any other circumstance or extra ordinary circumstance wherein the delay can be condoned. In the case of re-filing, the provisions of Section 5 of the Limitation Act, are not applicable, therefore, the case of re-filing will not be covered under the provisions of Section 5 ofLimitation Act and in such case, the rigours of Section 5 of Limitation Act and the explanation therein shall not be of any assistance while condoning the delay and the delay will be looked into considering the circumstances in hand. It, however, does not make the Court powerless to reject the petition of a person who is totally negligent, reckless or erratic, but surely the said case of re-filing will be excluded from Section 5 of Limitation Act.The court observed that when the said case of re-filing is excluded from Section 5 of Limitation Act, that the Court can look into the facts and circumstances of each case and condone the delay as it will not be covered by Section 5 of Limitation Act but the court cannot look into any circumstances which are covered under Section 5 of Limitation Act while seeing the delay in filing the objections. The case of re-filing is clearly not covered by Section 5 of Limitation Act.The ground of condonation of delay has to be looked into in the backdrop of the fact that this court is dealing with the objections for challenge of Award under section 34 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996. This Act is a special law, consolidating and amending the law relating to arbitration and matters connected therewith or incidental thereto. The Act does not prescribe the period of limitation, for various proceedings under that Act, except where it intends to prescribe a period different from what is prescribed in the Limitation Act. The interference of the court in the arbitral award has been limited by prescribing the period of limitation under Section 34 of the Act.The objections for challenging the award are a valuable right of the parties and if they are not filed within time, it takes away the said right to the benefit of the other. It is pertinent to mention here that although the Court can look into the issue of re-filing for condoning the delay and is not powerless under those circumstances to reject an application seeking condonation and may decline to condone the delay as held by Division Bench of this Court in S.R. Kulkarni’s case (supra).The court observed that in this present case, the delay of 258 days is exorbitant and the said delay cannot be condoned as it would amount to delaying the very object and purpose of prescribing the limitation for challenging the Award under section 34 of the Act and frustrating the scheme of the Act. The circumstances of condonation of delay in re-filing therein have to be in consonance with the aims and objects of the Act. The period of 258 days delay is too excessive to be condoned on the ground pleaded by the petitioner. The re-filing circumstance gives the court power to condone the delay in special circumstances, but the said aspect cannot give any party a leverage period of limitation for filing the objections against the award.The court stated that the issue of re-filing also looked into the question of sufficient cause and good grounds for condoning the delay. The illness of the counsel can be a good ground to condonereasonable delay but cannot be overstretched to condone the excessive delay of 258 days, especially where the defects in objections are not vital in character and can be easily handled by the associate counsel having vakalatnama in their favour.DECISION HELD BY COURT:The court stated that this court no merit in the contention of the petitioner. The application IA No.6734/2008 under Section 5 of Limitation Act is dismissed.