Adherence to the rule of equality in public employment is a basic feature of our Constitution and since the rule of law is the core of our Constitution, a court would certainly be disabled from passing an order upholding a violation of Article 14 or in ordering the overlooking of the need to comply with the requirements of Article 14 read with Article 16 of the Constitution. Therefore is necessary to hold that unless the appointment is in terms of the relevant rules and after a proper competition among qualified persons, the same would not confer any right on the appointee. The aforementioned has been laid down by the Apex Court in the case of Secretary, State of Karnataka &amp; Ors. v. Uma Devi &amp; Ors.; (2006) 4 SCC 1 has laid the premise by the Delhi High Court to be followed in the case of Saroj Kumar Nayak &amp; Ors v. Tribal Cooperative Marketing Development Federation on India Limited [W.P.(C) 5453/2020, CM Nos. 19659/2020 &amp; 340/2021] which was decided by a single judge bench comprising Justice V. Kameswarrao on 21st June 2021. The facts of the case are as follows. The petitioners were appointed as senior assistants and junior assistants. Though, the appointments were with the nomenclature “on contract basis” but for all purposes it was a regular appointment except the fact that the remuneration that is being paid, is not that of a regular appointee. In 2019, the respondent gave an advertisement to fill up various posts on direct recruitment basis. It is their case that as they are eligible and have been performing their duties sincerely / diligently hence are entitled to be regularized on the posts on which they are working. It was also stated that an advertisement had been issued on November 15, 2019 against which petitioner Nos.1, 4, 5, 6 and 7 had applied for the posts of Deputy Manager, Senior Accountant and Sales Executive. Consequent upon completion of all the procedure, the final result of the direct recruitment process and Computer Based Tests (‘CBT’ for short) were announced on March 23, 2021, wherein it was found except Deepak Kumar who has been shortlisted in the waiting list category for the post of Sales Executive, none of the other petitioners are successful in the selection process. The counsels from both the sides relied on several judgments to prove their side of the contention.