The Principal Controller of Defence AccountsOffice of Principal Controller of Defence Accounts Allahabad Uttar Pradesh 211 014 3.
DESHPANDE J Lanjewar PS.
The Union of India Ministry of Defence Through its Secretary 2.
No order as to (N.B.
SURYAWANSHI J (R.K.
The mechanism for immediate redressal of grievance needs to be provided.
The General Manager State Bank of India Centralized Pension Processing Centre 5th Floor Premises No.T 651 and T 751 I.T.C.
The sensitivity to the problems of the senior citizens need to be addressed.
Belapur CBD Belapur Railway Station Complex Navi Mumbai 400 0614 4.
LD VC CW 6620.odt IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT BOMBAY NAGPUR BENCH NAGPUR LD VC CW 665 OF 2020 Shri Naini Gopal S o Dhirendra Mohan Roy Aged About 85 Years Occupation Pensioner R o F 37 B Central Railway Colony Ajni Nagpur 440 003 1.
The officers having a degree or master’s degree in Social Work or Psychology who can be in personal touch with and genuinely understand and redress the grievances or complaints of the senior citizens can be appointed In the result this petition is allowed and the following order is The action of the respondent No.3 Bank in deducting an amount of Rs.11 040 per month with effect from October 2019 is hereby quashed and set aside LD VC CW 6620.odt We direct the respondent No.3 Bank to immediately credit an amount of Rs.3 27 045 recovered from the pension account of the petitioner along with interest at the rate of 18% per annum from the date of recovery of each of the installments till the date of credit of this amount in the pension account of the petitioner The respondent No.3 Bank is restrained from recovering any amount from the pension payable to the petitioner on the basis of the action which we have quashed and set aside We direct the respondent No.3 Bank to pay the compensation of Rs.50 000 to the petitioner and credit the said amount in the pension account of the petitioner within a period of eight days from today failing which the additional costs of Rs.1 000 for each day’s delay will have to be paid 5) We direct the Registry of this Court to forward the copies of this Judgment to the Centralized Processing Pension Centres of all the Nationalized Banks and also to the Reserve Bank of India and the Chief Secretary Government of Maharashtra to consider the question of LD VC CW 6620.odt constitution of separate cell and release of appropriate guidelines so as to attain the constitutional goal of providing respect dignity care sensitivity assistance and security to all the pension account holders in the This Judgment be uploaded under the digital signature of the Private Secretary Rule is made absolute in the aforesaid terms.