Hig h C o urt of H.P on 17 03 HCHP IN THE HIGH COURT OF HIMACHAL PRADESH SHIMLALPA No.
1315.Reserved on: 4 th March 2021.Decided on : 10 th March 2021.Jagdish Ram & Ors....Petitioners.
Untrovertedly when hence the apposite therewith RSANo.
VersusState of H.P.
& Ors.
Moreover an aliketherewith contention is reared in the LPA and the afore factumhas remained undenied by the writ petitioner respondent No.4herein.
3615 wherein also a purportedly alike dispute becomes encapsulated with respect to suit khasra numbers or the writ khasra numbersand or appertains to the validity of acquisition of titlethereons respectively by the appellants and or by the writ…7… Hig h C o urt of H.P on 17 03 HCHP petitioner arrayed as co respondent No.4 in the extant LPA …9….
....Respondents.Coram:The Hon’ble Mr.
3615 is subjudice before this Court and the lisborne therein appertains to the validity of canvassing(s) of theafore acquisition of title qua the suit khasra numbers hence bythe appellants herein and also an averment is raisedtherein vis a vis the appellants rather making interference(s) inthe ownership and possession of the writ petitioner arrayed asrespondent No.4 in the extant LPA upon hence vis a vis writ…6… Hig h C o urt of H.P on 17 03 HCHP khasra number or suit khasra numbers as the case may be and also the latter causing obstruction in the furtherprogression(s) of the partition proceedings hence subjudicebefore the Assistant Collector 1st Grade concerned.6.In aftermath even if the judgment and decreerendered by the Civil Court and though purportedlyappertaining to the writ khasra numbers or the suit kahsranumbers and also if in pursuance thereto mutations quatherewith became attested besides even if as alluded in theverdict of the learned Single Judge hence symbolic and physicalpossession of the writ khasra numbers or suit khasra numbers stood delivered to the writ petitioner arrayed as co respondentNo.4 in the LPA thereupon uptill a decision both final andconclusive becomes recorded upon RSA No.