Kumar J.
IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT PATNA Civil Writ Jurisdiction Case No.59020 Antu Manjhi S o Moali Manjhi resident of Village Basari P.S.
(S.
Bodh Gaya District Gaya The State of Bihar through the Principal Secretary Department of Food Commerce and Civil Supplies Bihar Patna The Divisional Commissioner Magadh Division Gaya ..
The instant petition sands disposed of in the Interlocutory Application(s) if any stands disposed aforesaid terms.
Petitioner s The District Magistrate Gaya The Sub Divisional Officer Sadar Gaya The District Supply Officer Gaya The Block Supply Officer Bodh Gaya Gaya ..
Respondent s For the Petitioner s For the Respondent s Mr.
Sudhir Kumar Sinha Advocate Mr.
As such petition stands disposed of in the following terms: a) Petitioner shall make himself available before Respondent No.
3 namely the District Magistrate Gaya on 10th of January 2022 b) Opportunity shall be granted to the parties to place on record all essential documents and materials if so required and desired c) Petitioner through learned counsel undertakes to fully cooperate and not take unnecessary adjournment d) The Appellate Authority shall decide the appeal on merits in compliance of the principles of natural justice e) The Appellate Authority shall pass a reasoned and speaking order within a period of three months from the date of appearance of the petitioner before the Appellate Authority f) Copy of the order passed by the Appellate Patna High Court CWJC No.59020 dt.20 12 2021 Authority shall be supplied to the parties g) Equally liberty reserved to the parties to take recourse to such other remedies as are otherwise available in accordance with law h) We are hopeful that as and when petitioner takes recourse to such remedies as are otherwise available in law before the appropriate forum the same shall be dealt with in accordance with law and with reasonable dispatch i) We have not expressed any opinion on merits and all issues are left open Liberty reserved to the petitioner to assail the order should the need so arise subsequently.